---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache Tomcat Version 7.0
date: '2010-06-29T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<i>Newest version of leading Open Source Java Web server now available, with full support for latest versions of Java Servlet, JSP, and EL specifications</i>
<p>FOREST HILL, MD – 29 June, 2010 – The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) –the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of 143 Open Source projects and initiatives– today announced the Version 7.0 release of Apache Tomcat, the multi-award winning Open Source Java Web server.
  <p>One of the ASF's earliest projects, the Tomcat code base was first donated to the ASF in 1999; the first Apache release, v.3.0, was made later that year. Apache Tomcat 7 is the project's first major release since 2006, fully implementing the Java Servlet 3.0, JavaServer Pages (JSP) 2.2, and Expression Language (EL) 2.2 specifications for easier Web framework integration.
    <p>Tomcat 7 makes it simpler to write and deploy complex Web applications, providing out-of-the-box support for development features that would otherwise be coded manually.
      <p>Apache Tomcat is shepherded by dozens of volunteers who contribute updates to its code base; its day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases, are overseen by a Project Management Committee.
        <p>"Developers can rely on Tomcat 7 for faster, more reliable application development and integration, providing both a better user experience and better use of server resources," explained Mark Thomas, member of the Apache Tomcat Project Management Committee.
          <p>With more than 10 million downloads to date, Apache Tomcat powers a broad range of mission-critical Websites and applications across countless industries and use cases, from Fortune 500 conglomerates to service providers to eCommerce systems.
            <p>"MuleSoft applauds the Apache Tomcat team on the release of Tomcat 7," said Ross Mason, founder and CTO of MuleSoft. "The improvements in this new release leverage advances in Java, including the Servlet 3 specification, significantly improving the lives of the world's Web application developers. This release includes more than 10 years of active community development effort, continuing Tomcat's lead as the best Java web application server to power the enterprise."
              <p>"I am delighted to see this first release of Apache Tomcat 7. Tomcat has always been the most popular deployment platform for Spring-based applications and this new release adds some great production technology," says Rod Johnson, general manager of the SpringSource division of VMware. "Tomcat's small footprint and reliable execution make it the ideal choice for the runtime component of SpringSource's tc Server. These features are also proving particularly important as organizations move their workloads to the cloud."
                <p>Developers using Tomcat 7 will also benefit from improved memory leak detection and prevention and support for 'aliasing' directories into an application's URL space. All known bugs reported in previous versions of Tomcat have been fixed in v.7.0.
                  <p>Tomcat versions 5.5.x and 6.0.x will continue to be supported, however, bug fixes or updates to possible security vulnerabilities in earlier versions may be slightly delayed.
                    <p>Availability
                      <p>Tomcat 7 is released under the Apache Software License v2.0. Downloads, documentation, and related resources are available at http://tomcat.apache.org/.
                        <p>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)
                          <p>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than one hundred leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as "The Apache Way," more than 300 individual Members and 2,300 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Basis Technology, Facebook, Google, HP, Microsoft, Progress Software, SpringSource/VMware, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a>.
                            <p>&nbsp;# # #
                            </p>
