---
layout: post
title: 'Apache News Roundup from the ApacheCon Show Floor '
date: '2010-11-06T21:41:29+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">The following newsworthy events took
place during the course of ApacheCon North America 1-5 November:</p> 
  <p> </p>
  <p><b>1) Foundation Updates</b></p>
  <p><u>Membership count</u>: 330 (31 new Members; 52
emeritus)</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>Committer count</u>: +2,500 (approximately
200 additional Committers over the past year) </p> 
  <p>The ASF is governed by the community it most directly serves -- the people collaborating within its projects. Apache Committers are developers who contribute (individuals who &quot;commit&quot; or &quot;write&quot; code, patches, or documentation) directly to the Apache code repository. Apache Members are Committers who have demonstrated merit in the Foundation’s growth, evolution, and progress, and have been nominated for and elected to be awarded ASF Membership by existing Members. ASF Members have the right to vote on community-related decisions; and and the ability propose an active user for Committership.&nbsp;</p>
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>Sponsors</u>: the ASF welcomed new Sponsors
AMD and IBM at the Gold level, and Lucid Imagination at the Bronze
level.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>Java Community Process</u>: the ASF's seat
on the JCP Executive Committee was ratified on 2 November 2010.</p> 
  <p> </p>
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><b>2) Apache Projects</b> </p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>Apache Top-level Projects</u>: 82
total; new Apache Projects added are Avro, Axis, Cassandra, Click,
HBase, Hive, Karaf, Mahout, Nutch, Pivot, Shindig, Subversion, Tika,
Traffic Server, UIMA. 
</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">Project updates include Apache Hive
v0.6.0; Apache James Server 3.0-M1; Apache Jackrabbit v2.0.3 and
v2.1.2; Apache Tomcat Connectors v1.2.31; and Apache Mahout v0.4.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>Apache Incubator</u>: 41 projects
are currently under development. New to the Apache Incubator are:
Alois, Clerezza, Deltacloud, Etch, Isis, libcloud, Lucene Connector
Framework, Lucy, Nuvem, OODT, Whirr, and Zeta Components.&nbsp;</p>
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>Apache Labs</u>: 32 initiatives being
sandboxed. Apache Labs projects are created to quickly explore
technical viability without the necessity of community building.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><br /> </p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><b>3) Events</b></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>BarCampApache</u>: the ASF will be hosting
its first event in Australia at the University of Sydney on 11
December 2010. 
</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><u>ApacheCon</u>: the next North American
conference will be in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, 7-11
November 2011.</p>
  <p> </p>
  <p>For more information, contact Sally Khudairi, VP Marketing &amp; Publicity at press@apache.org.</p>
  <p> </p>
  <p># # #&nbsp;</p>
