---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache TomEE Certified as Java EE
  6 Web Profile Compatible
date: '2011-10-04T19:17:22+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><i><b><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">Groundbreaking,
lightweight, scalable, all-Apache stack ideal for use in
enterprise-grade Cloud applications</font></b></i></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font size="3"><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif">The
Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers,
stewards, and incubators of nearly 150 Open Source projects and
initiatives, today announced that Apache TomEE has obtained
certification as Java EE 6 Web Profile Compatible Implementation.</font></font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">Making
its certification debut at JavaOne, Apache TomEE (pronounced &quot;Tommy&quot;)
is the Java Enterprise Edition of Apache Tomcat (Tomcat + Java EE =
TomEE) that unites several quality Java enterprise projects including
Apache OpenEJB, Apache OpenWebBeans, Apache OpenJPA, Apache MyFaces
and more.</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">&quot;It
is with great pride that we're announcing Apache TomEE as a certified
implementation of the Java EE 6 Web Profile,&quot; said David
Blevins, Vice President of Apache OpenEJB and original co-developer
of TomEE. &quot;Apache TomEE is the newest addition to the Java EE
server space, standing alongside the likes of GlassFish, JBoss, and
Apache Geronimo.&quot;</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font size="3"><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif">Developers
build applications using Java EE-certified products to ensure
portability across Java Enterprise Edition-compatible solutions.
Apache TomEE is one of only six certified implementations available
to the industry today. </font> </font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Redefining
Enterprise Cloud; Unifying Communities</b></font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">The
three core design objectives for TomEE were: 1) do not alter Tomcat;
2) maintain simplicity; and 3) avoid architecture overhead. This
enables developers to quickly and easily build highly performant
lightweight enterprise solutions using leading Apache projects
without the need for complex modifications or customization. Apache
TomEE's integration of Apache OpenWebBeans, Apache MyFaces, Apache
ActiveMQ, Apache OpenJPA, and Apache CXFis simple, to-the-point, and
focused on the singular task of delivering the Java EE 6 Web Profile
in a minimalist fashion.</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">The
simple, all-Apache stack is both incredibly light and fully
embeddable, making it ideal for testing and usage in today's
evolution of the enterprise Cloud, where the key to scalability is
hundreds of tiny servers, as opposed to the traditional definition of
how large your servers. Apache TomEE boasts groundbreaking
performance in the following areas:</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font size="3"><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif">-
Size: exceptionally small (about 24MB for the entire Web profile),
consumes very little resources;  </font> </font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">-
Memory: TCK (Technology Compatibility Kit) passed with no additional
memory settings beyond the default – a first in Java EE; and</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">-
Speed: runs exceptionally fast in embedded mode:
start/deploy/test/undeploy/stop in 2-3 seconds.</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">&quot;No
longer do developers have to ask 'Do we use Tomcat or Java EE?' at
the start of a project, as has been the case for the last 10 years,&quot;
explained Blevins. &quot;These two camps have historically been
separate, and certification is a major step in unifying these
communities. With TomEE, developers can now retire untested legacy
stacks and use a reliable product that doesn't deviate from the
Tomcat that they know and love.&quot;</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">Blevins
and members of the Apache OpenEJB community will be presenting
several sessions, including &quot;TomEE – Tomcat with a Kick&quot;,
in the &quot;Servers/Tomcat &amp; Geronimo&quot; track at ApacheCon,
7-11 November 2011, in Vancouver, Canada.  To register,
visit <a href="http://apachecon.com/">http://apachecon.com/</a></font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font size="3"><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif"><b>Availability
and Oversight<br /></b></font><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif">Apache
TomEE software is released under the Apache License v2.0, and is
overseen by the Apache OpenEJB Project Management Committee (PMC)
that guides the Project's day-to-day operations, community
development, and product releases. Apache TomEE is certified on
Amazon EC2 t1.micro, m1.small, and m1.large 32bit images;
certification on 64bit EC2 images and other Cloud platforms are in
the Project's future plans. Those Cloud vendors wishing to donate
resources for TomEE to be certified on their platforms are encouraged
to contact the Apache OpenEJB Project for information on how to
participate. Apache TomEE source code, documentation, mailing lists,
and related resources are available at <a href="http://openejb.apache.org/">http://openejb.apache.org/</a>.</font></font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font size="3"><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif"><b>About
The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br /></b></font><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif">Established
in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one hundred
fifty leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --
the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's
meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than
350 individual Members and 3,000 Committers successfully collaborate
to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting
millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are
distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively
participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and
ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and
expo. The ASF is a US 501(3)(c) not-for-profit charity, funded by
individual donations and corporate sponsors including AMD, Basis
Technology, Cloudera, Facebook, Google, HP, Hortonworks, IBM, Matt
Mullenweg, Microsoft, PSW Group, SpringSource/VMware, and Yahoo!. For
more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a>.</font></font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">&quot;Apache&quot;,
&quot;Apache OpenEJB&quot;, and &quot;Apache TomEE&quot; are
trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other brands and
trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</font></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><font face="Arial Narrow, sans-serif" size="3">#
# #</font></p>
