---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache Tika™ v1.0
date: '2011-11-09T13:18:09+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><i><b>Standards-based, Content and
Metadata Detection and Analysis Toolkit Powers Large-scale,
Multi-lingual, Multi-format Repositories at Adobe, the Internet
Archive, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and more.</b></i></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><b>9 November 2011 —FOREST HILL, MD—
</b>The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer
developers, stewards, and incubators of nearly 150 Open Source
projects and initiatives, today announced Apache Tika v1.0, an
embeddable, lightweight toolkit for content detection and analysis.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">&quot;The Apache Tika v1.0 release is five
years in the making, providing numerous improvements and new parsing
formats,&quot; said Chris Mattmann, Apache Tika Vice President, Senior
Computer Scientist at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and University
of Southern California Adjunct Assistant Professor of Computer
Science. &quot;From a toolkit perspective, it's easy to integrate, and
provides maximum functionality with little configuration.&quot;</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">With the increasing amount of
information available on the Internet today, automatic information
processing and retrieval is urgently needed to understand content
across cultures, languages, and continents.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">Apache Tika is a one-stop shop for
identifying, retrieving, and parsing text and metadata from over
1,200 file formats including HTML, XML, Microsoft Office,
OpenOffice/OpenDocument, PDF, images, ebooks/EPUB, Rich Text,
compression and packaging formats, text/audio/image/video, Java class
files and archives, email/mbox, and more.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">Tika entered the Apache Incubator in
2007, became a sub-project of Apache Lucene in 2008, and graduated as
an ASF Top-level Project (TLP) in April 2010. Apache Tika has been
tested extensively in repositories exceeding 500 million documents
across a variety of applications in industry, academia and government
labs.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">&quot;At NASA, we leverage Apache Tika
on several of our Earth science data system projects,&quot; explained
Dan Crichton, Program Manager and Principal Computer Scientist, NASA
Jet Propulsion Laboratory. &quot;Tika helps us processes hundreds of
terabytes of scientific data in myriad formats and their associated
metadata models. Using Tika with other Apache technologies such as
OODT, Lucene, and Solr, we are able to automate, virtualize and
increase the efficiency of NASA's
science data processing pipeline.&quot;</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">Users
and software applications use Apache Tika to explore the information
landscape through flexible interfaces in Java, from the command line,
REST-ful Web services, and also by consuming its functionality from a
multitude of programming languages directly, including Python, .NET
and C++. Tika defines a standard application programming interface
(API) and makes use of existing libraries such Apache POI and PDFBox
to detect and extract metadata and structured text content from
various documents using existing parser libraries.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">&quot;We've used Apache Tika
extensively for a wide range of content extraction tasks, including
parsing almost 600 million pages and documents from a large web
crawl,&quot; said Ken Krugler, Founder and President of Scale
Unlimited. &quot;It's proven invaluable as a simple yet robust
solution to the challenges of extracting text and metadata from the
jungle of formats you find on the web.&quot;</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">&quot;Hippo CMS 7 uses Apache Jackrabbit
to index content repositories containing as many as 500,000
documents,&quot; explained Arjé Cahn, CTO of Hippo. &quot;We are exploring
ways that Apache Tika can enhance access to metadata in our faceted
navigation feature, which may result in a possible future patch.&quot;</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><b>Availability and Oversight</b></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">As with all Apache products, Apache
Tika software is released under the Apache License v2.0, and is
overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the
project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project’s
day-to-day operations, including community development and product
releases. Apache Tika source code, documentation, and related
resources are available at <a href="http://tika.apache.org/">http://tika.apache.org/</a>.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><b>Apache Tika in Action!</b></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">Apache Tika v1.0 will be featured at
ApacheCon's Content Technologies track on 10 November 2011. PMC Chair
Mattmann will describe the modern genesis of the project and its
ecosystem, as well as the newly-launched Manning Publications book,
&quot;Tika in Action&quot; co-authored by Mattmann and Zitting.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "><b>About The Apache Software Foundation
(ASF)</b></p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">Established in 1999, the all-volunteer
Foundation oversees nearly one hundred fifty leading Open Source
projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world's most popular
Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as
&quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 350 individual Members and
3,000 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available
enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide:
thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache
License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing
lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's
official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US
501(3)(c) not-for-profit charity, funded by individual donations and
corporate sponsors including AMD, Basis Technology, Cloudera,
Facebook, Google, IBM, HP, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, PSW Group,
SpringSource/VMware, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit
<a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a>.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; ">&quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Apache Tika&quot;,
and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are trademarks of The Apache Software
Foundation. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their
respective owners.</p> 
  <p style="margin-bottom: 0in; "># # #</p>
