---
layout: post
title: Apache James Mime4j 0.7 is released
date: '2011-07-26T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: james
---
<p>The Apache James Project is happy to announce 
           the release of version 0.7 of the Apache James Mime4j.</p>
        <p>Mime4j is a flexible MIME parsing library written in Java. SAX, DOM and pull parsing styles are 
            supported.</p>

        <p>The 0.7 release brings another round of API enhancements, bug fixes and performance optimizations. 
            A major effort has been put in code reorganization, separating parsing code from DOM manipulation
            code. Mime4J has been restructured into three separate modules: 'core', 'dom' and 'storage'. 
            The 'core' package provides an event-driven SAX style parser that relies on a callback mechanism 
            to report parsing events such as the start of an entity header the start of a body, etc. 
            The 'dom' package contains base/abstract classes and interfaces for MIME-DOM manipulation aiming 
            to provide the base for a full featured traversable DOM. Per default the Mime4J DOM builder stores 
            content of individual body parts in memory. The 'storage' package provides support for more
            complex storage backends such on-disk storage systems, overflow on max limit, or encrypted storage 
            through JSSE API.</p>
          <p>Mime4j 0.7 improves support for headless messages, malformed separation between headers and body
            and adds support for &quot;obsolete&quot; rfc822 syntax (e.g: &quot;Header&lt;somespace&gt;: &quot; style). Parsing 
            performance for quoted printable streams have been considerably improved. A &quot;DecodeMonitor&quot; object 
            has been introduced in most code to define how to deal with malformed input (Lenient vs Strict 
            behaviours). Mime4j 0.7 also provides LenientFieldParser as an alternative to DefaultFieldParser
            when a higher degree of tolerance to non-severe MIME field format violations is desired.</p>

        <p><a class="externalLink" href="https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12310521&amp;version=12313592">Read the release notes</a>.</p>
<p>Download from <a href="http://james.apache.org/download.cgi#Apache_Mime4J">http://james.apache.org/download.cgi#Apache_Mime4J</a>
