---
layout: post
title: Call for Participation for ApacheCon Now Open!
date: '2011-03-03T20:07:33+00:00'
categories: conferences
---
<p><span style="FONT-SIZE: medium"><strong>Call for Participation</strong></span>
  <br />ApacheCon North America 2011
  <br />7-11 November 2011
  <br />Westin Bayshore, Vancouver, Canada
  <br />
  <br /><strong><em>All submissions must be received by Friday,&nbsp;29 April 2011 at midnight Pacific Time.
  <br /></em></strong>
  <br />ApacheCon, the official conference, trainings, and expo of The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), heads to Vancouver, Canada, this November, with dozens of technical, business, and community-focused sessions for beginner, intermediate, and expert audiences.
  <br />
  <br />Now in its 11th year, the ASF develops and shepherds nearly 150 Top-Level Projects and new initiatives in the Apache Incubator and Labs. With hundreds of thousands of applications deploying ASF products and code contributions by more than 2,500 Committers from around the world, the Apache community is recognized as among the most robust, successful, and respected in Open Source.
  <br />
  <br />This year's ApacheCon focuses on highly-relevant, professionally-directed presentations that demonstrate specific problems and real-world solutions. We welcome proposals --from developers and users alike-- in the areas of "Apache and ...":
  <br />
  <br />
</p>
<p style="MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0in">... Enterprise Solutions (from ActiveMQ to Axis2 to ServiceMix, OFBiz to Chemistry, the gang's all here!)
  <br />... Cloud Computing (Hadoop, Cassandra, HBase,&nbsp;CouchDB, and friends)
  <br />... Emerging Technologies + Innovation (Incubating projects such as&nbsp;Libcloud, Stonehenge, and Wookie)
  <br />... Community Leadership (mentoring and meritocracy, GSoC and related initiatives)
  <br />... Data Handling, Search&nbsp;+ Analytics (Lucene, Solr, Mahout, OODT, Hive and friends)
  <br />... Pervasive Computing (Felix/OSGi, Tomcat, MyFaces Trinidad, and friends)
  <br />... Servers, Infrastructure + Tools (HTTP Server, SpamAssassin, Geronimo, Sling, Wicket&nbsp;and friends)
</p>
<p>
  <br />Submissions are open to anyone with relevant expertise: ASF affiliation is not required to present at, attend, or otherwise participate in ApacheCon.
  <br />
  <br />Whilst we encourage submissions that the highlight the use of specific Apache solutions, we are unable to accept marketing/commercially-oriented presentations.
  <br />
  <br />Other proposals, such as panels, have been considered in the past; you are welcome to submit an alternate presentation, however, such sessions are accepted under exceptional circumstances. Please be as descriptive as possible, including names/bios of proposed panelists and any related details.
  <br />
  <br />Accepted speakers (not co-presenters) qualify for general conference admission and a minimum of two nights lodging at the conference hotel. Additional hotel nights and travel assistance are possible, depending on the number of presentations given and type of assistance needed.
  <br />
  <br />To submit a presentation proposal, please complete our <a href="http://na11.apachecon.com/proposals/new"><u><font color="#655a6c">ONLINE SUBMISSION FORM</font></u></a>&nbsp;at <a href="http://na11.apachecon.com/proposals/new">http://na11.apachecon.com/proposals/new</a>
  <br />
  <br />To be considered, proposals must be received by Friday,&nbsp;29 April&nbsp;2011 at midnight Pacific Time. Please email any questions regarding proposal submissions to cfp AT apachecon DOT com.
  <br />
  <br />Key Dates:
  <br />
  <br />
  <p style="MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0in">3&nbsp;March&nbsp;2011 - CFP Opens
    <br />29&nbsp;April 2011&nbsp;- CFP Closes
    <br />20 May-30 June 2011 - Speaker Notifications and Confirmations
    <br />7-11 November 2011 - ApacheCon NA 2011
  </p>
  <br />We look forward to seeing you in Vancouver!
  <br />
  <br />– The ApacheCon Planning team
