---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces ApacheCon Europe Community Edition
  Officially Sold-Out; Extends CFP for North America Event
date: '2012-10-30T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<i><b>Premier Open Source event brings developers and users together to lead communities &quot;The Apache Way&quot;, and accelerate success in evaluating, building, adopting, and deploying solutions across the Apache ecosystem.<br /></b></i><br />Forest Hill, MD –30 October 2012– The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) today announced key milestones and updates for ApacheCon, its official conference series.<br /><br />Now in its 13th year, ApacheCon brings users, developers, gurus, students, novices, and enthusiasts together to explore key issues in evaluating, building, and adopting Open Source innovations &quot;The Apache Way&quot;. ApacheCon is an ideal opportunity for technologists currently developing Apache-based solutions, as well as those interested in committing code to an Apache project, contributing to the Apache Incubator, or enhancing their Open Source products and community practices. In alignment with the community-driven culture of the ASF, all content for ApacheCon is selected by members of Apache Project Management Committees.<br /><br />More than 500 delegates will convene at ApacheCon Europe 5-8 November 2012 at the Rhein-Neckar-Arena in Sinsheim, Germany. The sold-out event marks the introduction of the &quot;Community Edition&quot; of ApacheCon --a smaller, less formal event aimed at a more technically-oriented audience, and featuring nearly 140 presentations across 6 tracks, MeetUps, FastFeather and Community Tracks, Hackathon, and BarCamp. The complete schedule is available at <a href="http://www.apachecon.eu/schedule/">http://www.apachecon.eu/schedule/</a><br /><br />ApacheCon Europe is underwritten through a generous donation by Platinum Sponsor SAP; Claus von Riegen, Head of Open Source and Open Standards participation, will serve as the conference’s opening plenary speaker. Joining SAP are Gold Sponsors Citrix (co-sponsors of the Cloud Track and sponsors of the event’s wireless connectivity), Google (sponsors of special student registration subsidies), Hortonworks (exclusive sponsors of the Big Data Track), and LucidWorks (exclusive sponsors of the Lucene/Solr &amp; Friends Track and LuceneEurocon, which is co-located with ApacheCon); and Silver Sponsors Cloudant (co-sponsors of the NoSQL Database Track), HP (co-sponsors of the Cloud Track), Optiver (co-sponsors of the NoSQL Database Track), and Oracle (sponsors of the Apache OpenOffice Track); and evening events sponsors Adobe, codeBusters, The Open Bastion, and VMware.<br /><br />ApacheCon Europe Community Edition is organized and run by the Apache community with assistance from The Open Bastion, producers of ApacheCon North America 2013.<br /><br />Scheduled to take place 24 February – 2 March 2013, ApacheCon North America will be held at the Portland Hilton in Portland, Oregon, United States. The event will kick off with pre-conference trainings, BarCamp, and hackathon the first two days; followed by the main conference + expo 26-28 February; and closing with post-conference sprints, workshops, and team building events.<br /><br />The theme for ApacheCon North America is &quot;Open Source Community Leadership Drives Enterprise-Grade Innovation&quot;, showcasing the diverse applications and solutions made possible by Apache technologies. Submissions about novel uses of Apache products and how they are helping to shape the future are particularly welcome, including proposals on technical, business and community matters for audiences at all levels from beginner to expert, with particular focus on those demonstrating real-world experience of solving specific problems.<br /><br />Dozens of Apache technologies—from Abdera to Zookeeper—will be represented across popular topic areas and tracks that include: Apache Daily (everyday tools, frameworks, and components), ApacheEE (Java Enterprise projects at the ASF), Big Data, Enterprise Messaging &amp; Integration, Cloud, Linked Data, Lucene/Solr &amp; Friends (Smart Search &amp; Analytics), Modular Java, NoSQL Database,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; OFBiz (Open Source Enterprise Resource Planning), Apache OpenOffice, Web Infrastructure, Business &amp; Community, and many more. To submit a proposal for ApacheCon North America, visit <a href="http://na.apachecon.com/">http://na.apachecon.com/</a><br /><br />Early-Bird registration will open with the announcement of the conference program at the end of November. Updates will be posted on the <a href="https://twitter.com/ApacheCon">@ApacheCon Twitter feed</a> and the <a href="http://na.apachecon.com/">ApacheCon Website</a>.<br /><br />For sponsor and exhibitor information, contact Nancy Asche at acnasponsors@theopenbastion.com or on +1 407 601 6228.<br /><br />For press/analyst registration and credentialing, or to become a Media Partner, contact Sally Khudairi on +1 617 921 8656 or sk@apache.org.<br /><br /><b>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</b><br />Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one hundred fifty leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world’s most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way&quot;, more than 400 individual Members and 3,500 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation’s official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(3)(c) not-for-profit charity, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including AMD, Basis Technology, Citrix, Cloudera, Facebook, Go Daddy, Google, HP, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, InMotion Hosting, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, PSW Group, SpringSource/VMware, WANdisco, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a> or follow <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF/">@TheASF on Twitter</a>.<br /><br />&quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Abdera&quot;, &quot;Apache Abdera&quot;, &quot;Zookeeper&quot;, &quot;Apache Zookeeper&quot; and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.<br /><br /># # #
