---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache TomEE™ v1.0
date: '2012-04-30T13:00:11+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div> 
    <p><b><i>Easy to use, affordable, and over 300% faster, Open Source Java Enterprise Edition of popular Apache Tomcat application server ideally suited for Cloud environments</i></b></p> 
    <p>The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of nearly 150 Open Source projects and initiatives, today announced Apache TomEE v1.0. Apache TomEE is the Java Enterprise Edition 6 Web Profile-Certified edition of Apache Tomcat, the world’s most popular Java application server software, with more than 70% market penetration within the enterprise.</p> 
    <p>A sub-project of Apache OpenEJB, TomEE adds Java EE features to the latest version of Apache Tomcat (v7.0.27; released 5 April 2012) in the simplest way possible. TomEE runs without any additional memory requirements, is compatible with most Tomcat-aware/tested tools and applications.</p> 
    <p>&quot;Apache TomEE makes developing Java EE solutions easy and simple,&quot; said David Blevins, Vice President of Apache OpenEJB. &quot;TomEE is the closest and shortest jump for anyone with a Tomcat stack using any number of Java EE technologies to finally move to a Java EE 6 Web Profile certified platform that offers great freedom in the Cloud.&quot;</p> 
    <p>According to the latest Gartner Group report on <a href="http://www.gartner.com/technology/reprints.do?id=1-19EDYKH&amp;ct=120222&amp;st=sg#h-d2e136">Cloud innovation in application platforms</a> [1], &quot;Through 2017, at least 70% of new Java EE applications will be deployed on an open-source Java application server…OSS application servers primarily (but not exclusively) from Apache…will continue to dominate small-scale Java EE deployments.&quot;</p> 
  </div> 
  <div>Coupling ongoing industry demand for Apache Tomcat-based solutions with the recent spike in Java EE use –particularly in Cloud environments– standards-based solutions play an increasingly important role in addressing concerns with vendor lock-in. Apache TomEE provides a new choice for the <a href="http://wiki.apache.org/tomcat/PoweredBy">millions of developers</a> [2] wanting a standards-based solution for the Cloud while retaining Tomcat, and is especially performant in very tiny machines.</div> 
  <div><br /><b>Fast, Affordable, Simple.</b></div> 
  <div>Apache TomEE combines several Java enterprise projects including Apache OpenEJB, Apache OpenWebBeans, Apache OpenJPA, Apache MyFaces, among others, and obtained its Java EE 6 Web Profile certification on the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) in October 2011.&nbsp;</div> 
  <div><br />&quot;For I Like Places, Enterprise Java was a big bet, mainly because the servers alone can kill a startup due to the costs they incur. Added to this is the learning curve involved with Java EE,&quot; said Ravindranath Akila, Founder of Adimpression. &quot;The irony is that none of these mattered because of Apache TomEE: it is so lightweight, lightning fast, and loves the Cloud. We’re absolute fans!&quot;</div> 
  <div><br />The Project's commitment to enhancing production quality includes low memory footprint and extensive performance improvements on large applications, yielding 100-300+% faster startup times over earlier versions:<br /><br /></div> 
  <div>- Railo 3.3 Custom (44mb WAR): 21.3% of beta2 startup time (369% faster)</div> 
  <div>- Lift/Scala sample app (23mb WAR): 43.8% of beta2 startup time (128% faster)</div> 
  <div>- Confluence 3.5.5 (149mb unpacked): 37.6% of beta2 startup time (166% faster)</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;We have been working closely with Apache TomEE over the last few months in preparation of becoming the first TomEE hosting provider on our 100% Java cloud platform. We are pleased to expand our offering to include TomEE, whose low overhead offers a more affordable option than other JavaEE app servers,&quot; said Neale Rudd, Director of Metawerx. &quot;So far we've seen performance improvements over 3x in application startup times and a series of code changes that confirm their pledge to being a lean, 100% Java EE 6 certified container while coping with the extra burden of a ‘do-no-harm’ promise in regards to running standard Tomcat apps. Congratulations on v1.0!&quot;</div> 
  <div><br />&quot;The strength of TomEE is the sum of its community members --the value in feedback provided by an ISP that supports many applications is immeasurable. We appreciate the excellent testing feedback received from Metawerx and encourage other Apache Tomcat hosting facilities to work with us as they add TomEE to their lineup,&quot; added Blevins. &quot;TomEE is a natural fit for Tomcat-focused ISPs as they now have a Java EE option that naturally fits with their existing infrastructure.&quot; The Project invites any ISPs seeking to expand their services by including TomEE to email the developer list at &lt;dev@openejb.apache.org&gt; for more information.<br /><br /></div> 
  <div><b>Availability and Oversight</b></div> 
  <div>Apache TomEE software is released under the Apache License v2.0, and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project’s day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. Apache TomEE source code, documentation, mailing lists, and related resources are available at <a href="http://openejb.apache.org/">http://openejb.apache.org/</a>.</div> 
  <p><b>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br /></b>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one hundred fifty leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 350 individual Members and 3,000 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(3)(c) not-for-profit charity, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including AMD, Basis Technology, Citrix, Cloudera, Facebook, GoDaddy, Google, IBM, HP, Hortonworks, Huawei, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, PSW Group, SpringSource, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a>.</p> 
  <p>&quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Apache TomEE&quot;, &quot;TomEE&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p> 
  <p>[1] Gartner Group --&quot;Predicts 2012: Cloud and In-Memory Drive Innovation in Application Platforms&quot;&nbsp;http://www.gartner.com/technology/reprints.do?id=1-19EDYKH&amp;ct=120222&amp;st=sg#h-d2e136</p> 
  <p>[2] http://wiki.apache.org/tomcat/PoweredBy</p> 
  <p># &nbsp;# &nbsp;#</p>
