---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache Deltacloud as a Top-Level Project
date: '2012-02-16T16:53:40+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<b><i><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">Innovative Open Source interoperability toolkit provides any-platform access and support for all major Cloud service providers</font></span></i></b> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><font size="3"><b><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';">Forest Hill, MD – 15 February 2012 –</span></b><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF),<span> </span>the
 all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of nearly 150 Open 
Source projects and initiatives, today announced that Apache Deltacloud 
has graduated from the Apache Incubator to become a Top-Level Project 
(TLP), signifying that the Project’s community and products have been 
well-governed under the ASF’s meritocratic process and principles.</span></font></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">Apache
 Deltacloud defines a RESTful Web Service application programming 
interface (API) for interacting with Cloud service providers and 
resources in those clouds in a unified manner. In addition, it consists 
of a number of implementations of this API for the most popular Clouds 
such as Amazon, Eucalyptus, GoGrid, IBM, Microsoft, OpenStack, 
Rackspace, and more. In addition to the API server, the project also 
provides client libraries for a wide variety of languages.</font></span></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">&quot;We
 are thrilled to have the project's growth and maturity recognized by 
The Apache Software Foundation,&quot; said David Lutterkort, Chair of the 
Apache Deltacloud Project Management Committee and Principal Software 
Engineer at Red Hat., &quot;Deltacloud has shown the value of vendor-neutral 
cloud management API's, and we are excited that, as an Apache Top-Level 
Project, we will continue to provide choice to cloud users; graduation 
is a great milestone for our community.&quot;</font></span></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">&quot;Ubiquity
 between clouds will be critical in the coming years and Deltacloud 
enables developers to only have to code towards one API,&quot; said Mark 
Worsey, CIO and EVP of Technology at GoGrid. &quot;At GoGrid, we feel it is 
extremely important to continue openness within the cloud community and 
provide APIs that are accessible, useful and adopted by other 3rd party 
libraries like Deltacloud.&quot;</font></span></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">&quot;Deltacloud
 is another example of how open source development continues to drive 
cloud innovation and development,&quot; said Tim Cramer, Vice President of 
Engineering at Eucalyptus Systems.</font></span></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">&quot;</font></span><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">Deltacloud
 delivers an elegant ReST API, focused on exposing the differences 
between cloud services. jclouds and Deltacloud have a strong history 
together, starting with collaborating on abstraction design in 2009, 
spiking with our interface to Deltacloud released last year. I'm excited
 to see Deltacloud's graduation, and looking forward to more shared code
 this year,</font></span><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">&quot;</font></span><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3"> said Adrian Cole, founder of jclouds.org and CTO jclouds at
 CloudSoft.</font></span></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">Initially
 proposed for development within the ASF by Lutterkort in May 2010, 
Deltacloud was seeded with code developed by Red Hat. Since then, the 
project has continued to innovate by expanding both its committer base 
and the diversity of clouds it can manage.</font></span></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><font size="3"><b><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';">Availability and Oversight<br /></span></b><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';">Apache
 Deltacloud software is released under the Apache License v2.0, and is 
overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A
 Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project’s day-to-day 
operations, including community development and product releases. Apache
 Deltacloud source code, documentation, mailing lists, and related 
resources are available at <a href="http://deltacloud.apache.org/">http://deltacloud.apache.org/.</a></span></font></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><font size="3"><b><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';">About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<var id="yiv1807539067yui-ie-cursor"></var><br /></span></b><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';">Established
 in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one hundred fifty
 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the 
world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic
 process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 350 individual Members and
 3,000 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available 
enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: 
thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache 
License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, 
mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user 
conference, trainings, and expo.
 The ASF is a US 501(3)(c) not-for-profit charity, funded by individual 
donations and corporate sponsors including AMD, Basis Technology, 
Cloudera, Facebook, Google, IBM, HP, Hortonworks, Matt Mullenweg, 
Microsoft, PSW Group, SpringSource/VMware, and Yahoo!. For more 
information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org">http://www.apache.org</a>/.</span></font></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3">&quot;Apache&quot;,
 &quot;Apache Deltacloud&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are trademarks of The Apache 
Software Foundation. All other brands and trademarks are the property of
 their respective owners.</font></span></div> 
  <div style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;" class="yiv1807539067MsoNormal"><span style="font-family: 'sans-serif';"><font size="3"># <span> </span># <span> </span>#</font></span></div>
