---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache Deltacloud™ v1.0
date: '2012-08-01T13:00:09+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<p><b><i>Open Source Cloud interoperability toolkit adds EC2 Compatibility frontend</i></b></p> 
  <p>Forest Hill, MD –1 August 2012– The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of nearly 150 Open Source projects and initiatives, today announced Apache Deltacloud™ v1.0.<br /></p> 
  <p>Deltacloud provides several Web Service APIs for interacting with Cloud service providers and resources in a unified, interoperable manner. In addition, the project comprises many implementations for the most popular Clouds and provides client libraries for a wide variety of languages.</p> 
  <p>&quot;The release of version 1.0 is a logical step in the evolution of the project,&quot; said David Lutterkort, Vice President of Apache Deltacloud. &quot;The native Deltacloud API has reached a level of maturity that makes calling this release 1.0 very appropriate.&quot;</p> 
  <p>The Deltacloud server offers three different API frontends: a classic API, based on the API defined by the Deltacloud project itself; a frontend for the Cloud Infrastructure Management Interface standard under development by the Distributed Management Task Force; and now a frontend for the API used by Amazon's EC2.</p> 
  <p>&quot;The EC2 frontend really just started as a 'let's see how hard this can be' prototype - we found that it was actually quite easy to add that additional API to Deltacloud. The Deltacloud codebase is very well suited to translating between cloud API's, making it possible for clients using one API to talk to clouds offering a completely different one,&quot; added Lutterkort. &quot;Deltacloud makes it possible for clients to use the EC2 API against a VMWare vSphere installation or against OpenStack; similarly, it allows clients to use the CIMI API with Amazon's Web Services. It goes a long way towards avoiding lock-in on the cloud API level.&quot;<br /></p> 
  <p><b>Availability and Oversight</b><br />Apache Deltacloud software is released under the Apache License v2.0, and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project’s day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. Apache Deltacloud source code, documentation, mailing lists, and related resources are available at <a href="http://deltacloud.apache.org/">http://deltacloud.apache.org/</a>.</p> 
  <p><b>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</b><br />Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one hundred fifty leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 400 individual Members and 3,500 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(3)(c) not-for-profit charity, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including AMD, Basis Technology, Citrix, Cloudera, Facebook, GoDaddy, Google, IBM, InMotion Hosting, HP, Hortonworks, Huawei, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, PSW Group, SpringSource, WANdisco, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a>.</p> 
  <p>&quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Deltacloud&quot;, &quot;Apache Deltacloud&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p> 
  <p>#&nbsp; #&nbsp; #<br /> </p>
