---
layout: post
title: Apache TomEE 1.0.0-beta-2 released!
date: '2012-01-24T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: openejb
---
It's time!  <a href="http://openejb.apache.org">Apache TomEE 1.0.0-beta-2 and Apache OpenEJB 4.0.0-beta-2</a> are finally out!

These releases are major improvements over their predecessors and incorporate heavy doses user feedback and road testing.  Nicely balanced at 50% bug fixes, 30% improvement of existing features, and 20% filling out features for better production and test experience, Apache TomEE is a major leap toward.  Based on feedback of 1.0.0-beta-2, a final release could be right around the corner.

Top among the areas to show the most improvement include CDI and JAX-RS, both of which received major attention.  Support for an Arquillian adapter for TomEE Embedded is a must-not-miss new feature.  The project itself has been taking a test-first approach to support and has amassed a rapidly growing number of tests for all the issues reported during the 1.0.0-beta-1 cycle.  An Arquillian adapter for remote Apache TomEE usage does exist as a snapshot and should make it into the next release.  As well this release boasts over 70 example applications, making a remarkable resource that cannot be ignored.

See the <a href="http://openejb.apache.org/downloads.html">downloads page</a> for the full changelog.  Get the binaries while they're hot!

Thank you so much to all the users who gave feedback and contributed towards the quality of the release.  We're very lucky to have gotten exactly the kind of user feedback were after with the 1.0.0-beta-1 release and we couldn't be prouder of the results.
