---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache ACE as a Top-Level Project
date: '2012-02-27T13:00:36+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<p id="yui_3_2_0_24_133028785985289"><span id="yui_3_2_0_24_1330287859852125"><i><b>Open Source OSGi software distribution framework especially suited for the Cloud and embedded computing markets</b></i><br /> <br /> <b>Forest Hill, MD – 27 February 2012 –</b> The Apache Software Foundation 
(ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of nearly 
150 Open Source projects and initiatives, today announced that Apache 
ACE has graduated from the Apache Incubator to become a Top-Level 
Project (TLP), signifying that the Project's community and products have
 been well-governed under the ASF's meritocratic process and principles.<br /> <br />
Apache ACE is a software distribution framework for managing and 
distributing modular software components, configuration data, and other 
artifacts to OSGi-based and related target systems.<br /> <br />
Comprising a set of OSGi bundles, Apache ACE allows developers to easily
 manage the dependencies, deployment, and feedback of installed software
 components. This proves particularly useful when scaling across 
embedded and Cloud computing applications by covering the area of 
deploying and dynamically scaling applications in the cloud, as well as 
mobile platforms that would utilize ACE to create their own market or 
application store.<br /> <br />
Using Apache ACE, updates and new components can be easily distributed 
while keeping a full history of what was installed where and during what
 period. In addition, ACE helps developers set up an automated 
development, QA/testing, staging, and production environment.<br />
Initially donated to the Apache Incubator in 2009 by software solutions 
provider Luminis, a diverse and international group of developers joined
 the initial developers of the ACE code base to successfully form the 
Apache ACE community.<br /> <br />
&quot;We are excited that ACE has successfully graduated as a Top-Level 
Project,&quot; said Marcel Offermans, Vice President of Apache ACE and Fellow
 at Luminis. &quot;Developing projects 'The Apache Way' stimulates widespread
 cooperation with individuals that each bring their specific knowledge 
to the project. Diversity is key -- the community is evolving the 
project in new and interesting ways, leveraging the collective 
expertise.&quot;<br /> <br />
Availability and Oversight<br />
Apache ACE software is released under the Apache License v2.0, and is 
overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A
 Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day 
operations, including community development and product releases. Apache
 ACE source code, documentation, mailing lists, and related resources 
are available at <a href="http://ace.apache.org/">http://ace.apache.org/</a>.<br /> <br />
About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br />
Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one 
hundred fifty leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server
 — the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's 
meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 350 individual
 Members and 3,000 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely
 available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users 
worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the 
Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing 
lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official 
user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(3)(c) 
not-for-profit charity, funded by individual donations and corporate 
sponsors including AMD, Basis Technology, Cloudera, Facebook, Google, 
IBM, HP, Hortonworks, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, PSW Group, 
SpringSource/VMware, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">
http://www.apache.org/</a>.<br /> <br />
&quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Apache ACE&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are trademarks of The Apache 
Software Foundation. All other brands and trademarks are the property of
 their respective owners.<br /> <br />
#&nbsp; #&nbsp; #</span></p>
