---
layout: post
title: Trainings for ApacheCon North America announced; Early-Bird registration extended
  until 5 January 2013!
date: '2013-01-01T13:20:52+00:00'
categories: conferences
---
<p>The 25th edition of The Apache Software Foundation's official conference series will showcase dozens of key Apache projects across Big Data, Cloud Computing, Infrastructure, Messaging, Scientific Applications, Community, and more.</p> 
  <p>Themed &quot;Open Source Community Leadership Drives Enterprise-Grade Innovation&quot;, ApacheCon North America will take place 24 February-2 March 2013 at the Hilton Portland &amp; Executive Tower in Portland, Oregon.</p> 
  <p>ApacheCon is the ideal opportunity for Open Source users, developers, gurus, students, novices, community managers, and enthusiasts to address today's issues, opportunities, and solutions focusing on the ASF's many diverse projects and initiatives. ApacheCon offers those developing Apache-based solutions, as well as those interested in committing code to an Apache project, contributing to the Apache Incubator, or enhancing their Open Source products and community practices an excellent way to meet the individual contributors behind some of the industry's most popular Apache projects through hands-on educational sessions and ample networking opportunities. Anyone interested in Apache products is welcome: ASF affiliation is not required to attend or otherwise participate in ApacheCon.<br /></p> 
  <p><b>Pre-conference trainings, BarCamp, and Hackathon</b> take place 24-25 February. Tutorials include: Working with Apache Cocoon – Crash course on Web Services Security – Getting started with Apache Flex – Introducing Apache Traffic Server – Make #hashtags come alive using Apache Rave and OpenSocial! – Apache httpd basics – Migrating complex applications to OSGi -a case study: Apache James meets Karaf – How To Manage Your Apache Project Brand – Modular Java for Enterprise Applications – Training tutorial: A beginner's guide to Apache CouchDB …and more!</p> 
  <p>26-28 February is the <b>main conference + expo, evening events, BOFs, and MeetUps</b>. Track topics include: Apache 101 – Servers – Community – Cloud Computing – Big Data – Security – Enterprise Messaging + more! Apache projects featured include: Apache HTTP Server, Airavata, Apollo, Camel, Cassandra, CloudStack, CouchDB, CXF, Flex, Flume, Hadoop, HBase, Helix, Hive, Kafka, Lucene, OpenOffice, OODT, Qpid, Rave, Solr, Sqoop, Streams, Syncope, Tomcat, Traffic Server, and many more. Popular ApacheCon sessions return, including State of the Feather, The Apache Way, The Business of Open Source, and the Fast Feather Track on select projects in the Apache Incubator and Labs. The full schedule is at <a href="http://na.apachecon.com/schedule/">http://na.apachecon.com/schedule/</a></p> 
  <p>Join us 1-2 March for <b>post-conference sprints, workshops, and team building events</b> with an array of Apache projects and community leaders. Many of these activities are available to the public free of charge.</p> 
  <p>Register today at <a href="http://na.apachecon.com/">http://na.apachecon.com/</a> and be sure to secure your discounted sleeping room at the conference hotel, as space is limited http://na.apachecon.com/venue/&nbsp; <br /></p> 
  <p>We look forward to seeing you in Portland!<br /></p> 
  <p>-The ApacheCon Planning Committee<br /> </p>
