---
layout: post
title: What's new with Apache Flex (Sept 2013)
date: '2013-09-15T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: flex
---
Some of the feedback that we got loud and clear at 360|Stack this last month was that it is very hard to follow the progress of Apache Flex.  Our mailing lists are busy – really busy and our social media feeds tend to get drowned out by simply being social media.  We will be doing semi-regular updates on this blog to keep the community up to speed as to what is happening with our project.  We will be watching the comments for feedback and suggestions on these updates – but if you have any bugs you want to report please do it via the official JIRA (<a href="https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLEX">https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLEX</a>).

<b>RELEASES</b>
<ul><li>Apache Flex SDK 4.10.0 was released on 8/6/13.  It is available on our website at <a href="http://flex.apache.org/download-binaries.html">http://flex.apache.org/download-binaries.html</a> -- or via our easy all-in-one installer at <a href="http://flex.apache.org/installer.html">http://flex.apache.org/installer.html</a></li><li>Apache Flex Installer 2.6.0 was released on 8/6/13. This tool allows users to quickly grab any version of Apache Flex, along with all the required dependencies in one shot.  It is available at <a href="http://flex.apache.org/installer.html">http://flex.apache.org/installer.html</a></li></ul>

<b>PROJECT ACTIVITY</b>
Activity in Apache Flex continues to be in  two main areas:  improvements to the existing Adobe Flash Platform-dependent code base, including the releases listed above, and prototyping ways to create a version of Flex that is independent from the Adobe Flash Platform.  There is another group working on Maven-related tools for the existing code base.

<em>Since the 4.10 release we've seen:</em>
<ul><li>Significant web visits increase (especially for the week after the release up 100% or more)</li><li>More JIRA activity (more bugs raised than resolved however)</li><li>More activity on the users mailing list (flex-users markmail archive is broken so I can't see exact numbers)</li><ul>

<em>Other highlights:</em>
<ul><li>Over 200 bugs were fixed in 4.10.0.</li><li>4.10.0 supports Linux.</li><li>FlexUnit was finally committed to its repo.</li><li>Several users have submitted applications for a "showcase"</li><li>Flex CI now runs over 30,000 tests.</li><li>One committer overhauled the wiki to make it better organized.</li><li>Adobe submitted the software grant for the BlazeDS software.  There are some .jar files in the donation that need to be removed and replaced and that is holding up the actual committing of the code to the repo.</li><ul>

<b>COMMUNITY</b>
<ul><li>Cyrill Zadra promoted from committer to PMC on 6/11/13.</li><li>Mark Kessler promoted from committer to PMC on 8/13/13.</li><li>Scott Guthmann added as committer and PMC on 7/19/13.  Scott's main contributions will be on the marketing side.</li><li>Latest analytics include over 600,000 hits on the website in the last six months.</li><li>Since April, the Installer has been used to install over 16,000 copies of the SDK.  There were more than 5000 installs of 4.10.0 in the month since its release.</li><li>Several Apache Flex committers presented at 360|Stack which is the largest Flex-oriented conference in the world.</li><li>Flex mailing lists are now 'mirrored' on Nabble.  Mailing list traffic is so high that many folks we talked to at 360|Stack have stopped reading emails.  Many of our committers are unable to keep up.  June and July
almost hit 1000 emails per month each.  Folks requested a "forum" interface as being friendlier than the archive or mailing list interfaces.</li><ul>
