---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache Bloodhound™ as a Top-Level
  Project
date: '2013-04-02T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><b><i>Open Source Development Collaboration Tool Provides Intuitive Management of Software Projects and Issue Tracking for Global Organizations of All Sizes</i></b></div> 
  <div><b><br />Forest Hill, MD –2 April 2013– </b>The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of nearly 150 Open Source projects and initiatives, today announced that Apache Bloodhound has graduated from the Apache Incubator to become a Top-Level Project (TLP), signifying that the Project's community and products have been well-governed under the ASF's meritocratic process and principles.</div> 
  <div><br />Apache Bloodhound is a world-class software development collaboration tool, including issue tracking, wiki and repository browsing based on Trac, the Open Source, Web-based project management and bug tracking system.</div> 
  <div><br />&quot;When Bloodhound entered the incubator it was a completely new project, though being built on top of the Trac framework has given it a strong foundation&quot; said Gary Martin, Vice President of Apache Bloodhound. &quot;Community growth and self-governing to the standards of a top-level project within The Apache Foundation has given the team invaluable experience.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br />While Trac is already widely used in production by many organizations, Bloodhound resolves requests that have remained unaddressed, including the support for hosting multiple projects, full-text search and an intuitive user interface. In addition, Bloodhound’s tightly-integrated source code browser works with Apache Subversion and Git, provides Wiki functionality, and is compatible with hundreds of free plugins for Trac, allowing users to customize their experience even further.</div> 
  <div><br />Bloodhound is especially relevant to organizations that need to avoid storing data in proprietary systems, which puts their information at risk of vendor lock-in. Its user-friendly, responsive interface caters for screen sizes –from mobile phones to desktop computers– further demonstrates its support for modern lifestyles.</div> 
  <div><br />Global software provider WANdisco submitted Bloodhound to the Apache Incubator in December 2011. The Apache Foundation was seen as the natural choice for its commitment to &quot;Community over Code&quot; which was the approach the initial contributors wanted to take.</div> 
  <div><br />&quot;Becoming a TLP is fantastic recognition of the progress Bloodhound has made so far in adopting the 'Apache Way' but we do not plan to rest on our laurels.&quot; said Martin. &quot;We actively welcome potential contributors and continue to look at ways of reducing barriers to contribution.&quot;</div> 
  <div><b><br />Availability and Oversight</b></div> 
  <div>Apache Bloodhound software is released under the Apache License v2.0, and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. Apache Bloodhound source code, documentation, mailing lists, and related resources are available at http://bloodhound.apache.org/.&nbsp;</div> 
  <div>Project updates and online demo instances are available for the latest stable released version, as well as a nightly build that shows the latest progress in the project. For more information, follow the nightly build at <a href="https://bh-demo1.apache.org/">https://bh-demo1.apache.org/</a>, the latest stable release at <a href="https://bh-demo2.apache.org/">https://bh-demo2.apache.org/</a>, and the <a href="https://twitter.com/apbloodhound">Apache Bloodhound Twitter feed @apbloodhound</a>.</div> 
  <div><b><br />About the Apache Incubator</b></div> 
  <div>The Apache Incubator is the entry path for projects and codebases wishing to become part of the efforts at The Apache Software Foundation. All code donations from external organizations and existing external projects wishing to join the ASF enter through the Incubator to: 1) ensure all donations are in accordance with the ASF legal standards; and 2) develop new communities that adhere to our guiding principles. Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects. While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be fully endorsed by the ASF. For more information, visit <a href="http://incubator.apache.org/">http://incubator.apache.org/</a>.</div> 
  <div><b><br />About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</b></div> 
  <div>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one hundred fifty leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way&quot;, more than 400 individual Members and 3,500 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(3)(c) not-for-profit charity, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including AMD, Basis Technology, Citrix, Cloudera, Facebook, Go Daddy, Google, HP, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, InMotion Hosting, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, PSW Group, SpringSource/VMware, WANdisco, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a> or <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">follow @TheASF on Twitter</a>.</div> 
  <p>&quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Bloodhound&quot;, &quot;Apache Bloodhound&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p> 
  <div> 
    <p># # #</p> 
  </div> 
  <div>Contact:</div> 
  <div>Sally Khudairi</div> 
  <div>Vice President</div> 
  <div>The Apache Software Foundation</div> 
  <div>press@apache.org</div> 
  <div>+1 617 921 8656</div>
