---
layout: post
title: Apache Log4j 2.0-beta6 released
date: '2013-05-13T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: logging
---
<p>The Apache Log4j 2 team is pleased to announce the Log4j 2.0-beta6 release!</p>

<p>Apache log4j is a well known framework for logging application behavior. Log4j 2 is an upgrade to
Log4j that provides significant improvements over its predecessor, Log4j 1.x, and provides
many of the improvements available in Logback while fixing some inherent problems in Logback's
architecture.</p>

<p>This is the eighth release of Log4j 2 and is being made available to encourage use and feedback from the community.</p>

<h3>Fixed Bugs:</h3>
<ul>
<li>LOG4J2-231:  Logger.getParent() was not returning the correct Logger.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-201:  Renamed Plugin annotation attribute from "type" to "category".</li>
<li>LOG4J2-219:  Fix: install default root logger if not configured (this is unchanged),
        but make sure to include configured named loggers. Clarified documentation. Thanks to Peter DePasquale.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-159:  Use OSGi version format in Fragment-Host</li>
<li>LOG4J2-234:  RegexFilter threw a NullPointerException when used as a context-wide filter.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-192:  Add support for interpolating Environment variables when processing the configuration.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-235:  Removed dependency on tools jar from core module, made jconsole dependency optional. Thanks to Sebastian Oerding.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-233:  Fixed link to log4j-user mailing list.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-222:  Disruptor will now shutdown during Tomcat shutdown. Thanks to Steven Yang.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-224:  The FlumeAppender failed to start if the Flume RPCClient could not connect to any Flume agents.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-223:  Fix LoggerContext start and stop to eliminate IllegalStateException and NoClassDefFound errors.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-221:  Remove hundreds of compiler warnings. Thanks to Nick Williams.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-215:  Various small documentation fixes.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-217:  Ensure PluginManager streams are always closed. Thanks to Fabien Sanglard.</li>
</ul>


<h3>Changes:</h3>

<ul>
<li>LOG4J2-237:  Moved JMX Client GUI classes into separate jmx-gui submodule.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-230:  Improved error reporting when misconfigured. Thanks to Wojciech Zaręba.</li>
<li>Renamed AsynchAppender to AsyncAppender. Plugin name became Async (was Asynch).</li>
<li>Removed CheckStyle false positives for NewlineAtEndOfFile and whitespace following '*' at end of line in javadoc.</li>
<li>Moved Clock interface to package org.apache.logging.log4j.core.helpers.</li>
<li>LOG4J2-225:  Documentation updates to clarify use and impact of location in pattern layouts.</li>
</ul>

<p>Apache Log4j 2.0-beta5 requires a minimum of Java 6 to build and run. Basic compatibility with
Log4j 1.x is provided through the log4j-1.2-api component, however it does not implement some of the
very implementation specific classes and methods. The package names and Maven groupId have been changed to
org.apache.logging.log4j to avoid any conflicts with log4j 1.x.</p>

<p>For complete information on Apache Log4j 2, including instructions on how to submit bug reports,
patches, or suggestions for improvement, see the Apache Apache Log4j 2 website:</p>

<a href="http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/">http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/</a>
