---
layout: post
title: 'Travel Assistance Applications Now Open for ApacheCon Europe: Budapest 17-21
  November 2014'
date: '2014-06-05T18:39:54+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div>The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)'s Travel Assistance Committee (TAC) is now accepting applications for ApacheCon Europe 2014, taking place 17-21 November in Budapest, Hungary.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The TAC is seeking individuals from the Apache community at-large, users, developers, educators, students, Committers, and Members, who would like to attend ApacheCon, but need some financial support in order to be able to get there. There are limited places available, and all applicants will be scored on their individual merit.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Financial assistance is available to cover flights/trains, accommodation and entrance fees either in part or in full, depending on circumstances. Applications are judged on several independent criteria that includes, among others: financial need, merit in open source communities, benefits by participating.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Accepted applicants will be asked to provide help during the conference.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The Travel Assistance Committee aims to support all official ASF events, including cross-project activities; as such, it may be prudent for those in Asia and US to wait for an event geographically closer to them.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>More information can be found at <a href="http://www.apache.org/travel/index.html">http://www.apache.org/travel/index.html</a> including a link to the online application and detailed instructions for submitting.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Applications will close on 25 July 2014 at 23:00 UTC/GMT.<br /><br /></div> 
  <div>We wish good luck to all those who will apply, and thank you in advance for tweeting, blogging, and otherwise spreading the word.&nbsp;</div>
