---
layout: post
title: 'RAD RACE 2015: 7 proprietary CASE tools, and Apache Isis'
date: '2015-10-03T15:01:33+00:00'
categories: isis
---
<p>
On Sept 25th and 26th we (Jeroen van der Wal &amp; Dan Haywood) took part in the Original RAD Race competition. This is a competition staged each year, this year (as in previous years) hosted and sponsored by Cap Gemini, and held in their offices in Utrecht, Netherlands.&nbsp;</p> 
  <p>The competition consists of teams of exactly two team members; there were eight in total. The competition is held under very strict conditions: 8 hours of development on the first day, and a further 4 hours of coding the next. If you do the maths you’ll work out that means a sum total of 24 hours (2 team members x 12 hours), or 3 person-days.

</p> 
  <p>We asked and were granted permission to develop our application as open source; our entry is in a <a href="https://github.com/incodehq/radrace2015">github repo</a>. If you look through the commit history you’ll see that all the work was done in those 12 hours (8 on 25 Sept 2015, a further 4 on 26 Sept).

All the other teams used proprietary tools such as NoutBuilder, ThinkWise, Progress, SalesForce, Uniface and Mendix. We were the only open source entry, using <a href="http://isis.apache.org/">Apache Isis</a> (along with supporting modules in <a href="http://www.isisaddons.org/">Isis Addons</a>); in fact we think we are the first open source entry in the 17 years history of the competition.
</p> 
  <p>
OK, we didn’t win…​  but we got the impression we were mid-table, which we think is pretty good in the face of the competition. But you can judge for yourself; either download and build the code, or simply take a look at the various screenshots/our commentary on the <a href="https://github.com/incodehq/radrace2015">README of the repo</a>.</p> 
  <p>

The README also has some of our &quot;learnings&quot; that we concluded from taking part in the competition.</p>
  <p><br /></p>
  <p><br /></p>
