---
layout: post
title: Sentry 1.5.1 release annoucement
date: '2015-04-16T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: sentry
---
<div><br /></div> 
  <h2 style="text-align: left;">&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Apache Sentry 1.5.1-Incubating released!</h2> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div> 
    <div style="text-align: justify;">On July 16, the Apache Sentry community announced the release of Apache Sentry 1.5.1-incubating. Significant work has gone into this release which includes 8 major features, 18 improvements and 131 defects fixes.</div> 
    <div style="text-align: justify;"><br /></div> 
    <div style="text-align: justify;">The following are the important features in this release:</div> 
    <div style="text-align: justify;">1. Column-level access control: This feature provides the access control on column level support for the component such as HIVE. &nbsp;</div> 
    <div style="text-align: justify;">2. More granular privileges to the DBModel: This feature adds more privilege types like CREATE, DROP, INDEX, LOCK etc.&nbsp;</div> 
    <div style="text-align: justify;">3. High availability for Sentry service: Provide the option of running more redundant Sentry instances in the same cluster with a hot standby. This allows a fast failover to a new Sentry instance seamlessly in the case of outages.</div> 
    <div style="text-align: justify;">4. Solr Sentry plug-in integration with DB store: Solr can persist the security policies into a database store like the hive plugin does. This new feature leverages the generic authorization model framework (which is also one new feature added in this release).</div> 
  </div> 
  <div> </div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The complete list of bugfixes, improvements and features in Sentry 1.5.1-incubating can be viewed at:&nbsp;<span style="white-space: pre-wrap;">http://s.apache.org/hVw</span></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div> 
    <p>Guoquan Shen (Release Manager)</p> 
    <p> </p> 
    <p>Note: Updated from 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 release as 1.5.0 release was defuncted&nbsp;</p> 
    <p> </p> 
  </div> 
  <div><br /></div>
