---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Welcomes Cloudera as a Platinum-level Sponsor
date: '2015-02-17T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div> 
    <p><b><i>Sponsorship boosts operational support for Apache projects and community</i></b></p> 
    <p><b>Forest Hill, MD –17 February 2015–</b> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today that Cloudera has renewed its sponsorship of the ASF with an upgrade to the Platinum level.</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>&quot;We are grateful for Cloudera's continued generous support, which, in turn, helps advance the efforts of the Apache community at-large,&quot; said ASF President Ross Gardler. &quot;Sponsoring the ASF helps provide critical infrastructure and support services that keep the Foundation running on a day-to-day basis.&quot;</p> 
    <p>As a United States 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization, the ASF relies on individual donors and corporate sponsors to help bolster existing projects, incubate new initiatives, and promote meritocratic, community-driven development &quot;The Apache Way&quot;.</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>An ASF Sponsor since 2011, Cloudera is recognized as a champion and active contributor to numerous Apache projects, including Avro, Hadoop, HBase, Hive, Pig, Whirr, and Zookeeper.&nbsp;</p> 
  </div> 
  <p>&quot;Open source software has proven a powerful engine for innovation,&quot; said Mike Olson, Founder and Chief Strategy Officer of Cloudera. &quot;It harnesses the talent and creativity of the global community of developers. Participation in that community is critical. Cloudera has long been a proud member of the ASF. Developers on the Cloudera payroll have created and contributed to ASF projects, working closely with their peers in the Apache Hadoop ecosystem. Our platinum sponsorship of the ASF complements our active contribution of code. The organization provides essential governance and community support on which our business relies. This donation, and our ongoing commitment, allows the ASF to deepen its investment in community, collaboration and innovation.&quot;</p> 
  <div>Cloudera joins Platinum level Sponsors Citrix, Facebook, Google, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, and Yahoo!; Gold Sponsors Comcast, HP, Hortonworks, and IBM; Silver Sponsors Budget Direct, Cerner, InMotion Hosting, iSIGMA, Pivotal, Produban, and WANdisco; and Bronze Sponsors Accor, Basis Technology, Bluehost, Cloudsoft Corporation, Samsung, Talend, and Twitter. For more information on ASF Sponsorship, please visit <a href="http://apache.org/foundation/sponsorship.html">http://apache.org/foundation/sponsorship.html</a></div> 
  <p><b>About Cloudera<br /></b>Cloudera is revolutionizing enterprise data management by offering the first unified Platform for Big Data, an enterprise data hub built on Apache Hadoop. Cloudera offers enterprises one place to store, access, process, secure, and analyze all their data, empowering them to extend the value of existing investments while enabling fundamental new ways to derive value from their data. Cloudera’s open source Big Data platform is the most widely adopted in the world, and Cloudera is the most prolific contributor to the open source Hadoop ecosystem. As the leading educator of Hadoop professionals, Cloudera has trained over 27,000 individuals worldwide. Over 1,400 partners and a seasoned professional services team help deliver greater time to value. Finally, only Cloudera provides proactive and predictive support to run an enterprise data hub with confidence. Leading organizations in every industry plus top public sector organizations globally run Cloudera in production. For more information about Cloudera, visit <a href="http://www.cloudera.com/content/cloudera/en/about/company-profile.html">http://www.cloudera.com/content/cloudera/en/about/company-profile.html</a></p> 
  <p><b>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br /></b>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 500 individual Members and 4,500 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Budget Direct, Cerner, Citrix, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, HP, IBM, InMotion Hosting, iSigma, Matt Mullenweg, Microsoft, Pivotal, Produban, WANdisco, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a> or follow <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></p> 
  <div> 
    <p>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Apache Avro&quot;, &quot;Avro&quot;, &quot;Apache Hadoop&quot;, &quot;Hadoop&quot;, &quot;Apache HBase&quot;, &quot;HBase&quot;, &quot;Apache Hive&quot;, &quot;Hive&quot;, &quot;Apache Pig&quot;, &quot;Pig&quot;, &quot;Apache Whirr&quot;, &quot;Whirr&quot;, &quot;Apache Zookeeper&quot;, &quot;Zookeeper&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot;, are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p> 
    <p>Cloudera, Cloudera's Platform for Big Data, Cloudera Enterprise Data Hub Edition, Cloudera Enterprise Flex Edition, Cloudera Enterprise Basic Edition and CDH are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cloudera Inc. in the United States, and in jurisdictions throughout the world. All other company and product names may be trade names or trademarks of their respective owners.</p> 
  </div> 
  <div></div> 
  <div> 
    <p># # #</p> 
  </div>
