---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Zeppelin™ as a Top-Level Project
date: '2016-05-25T10:00:34+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><b><i>Open Source Big Data analytics and visualization tool for distributed, interactive, and collaborative systems using Apache Flink, Apache Hadoop, Apache Spark, and more.</i></b></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Forest Hill, MD –25 May 2016– The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today that Apache® Zeppelin™ has graduated from the Apache Incubator to become a Top-Level Project (TLP), signifying that the project's community and products have been well-governed under the ASF's meritocratic process and principles.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Zeppelin is a modern, web-based notebook that enables interactive data analytics. Notebooks help developers, data scientists, and related users to handle data efficiently without worrying about command lines and cluster details.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;The Zeppelin community is pleased to graduate from the Apache Incubator,&quot; said Lee Moon Soo, Vice President of Apache Zeppelin. &quot;With 118 worldwide contributors and widespread adoption in numerous commercial products, we are proud to officially be a part of the Apache Big Data ecosystem.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Zeppelin's collaborative data analytics and visualization capabilities makes data exploration, visualization, sharing, and collaboration easy over distributed, general-purpose data processing systems that use Apache Flink, Apache Hadoop, and Apache Spark, among other Big Data platforms.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Zeppelin is:</div> 
  <div> 
    <ul> 
      <li>Multi-purpose --features data ingestion, exploration, analysis, visualization, and collaboration;</li> 
      <li>Robust --supports 20+ more backend systems, including Apache Spark, Apache Flink, Apache Hive, Python, R, and any JDBC (Java Database Connectivity);</li> 
      <li>Easy to deploy --built on top of modern Web technologies (provides built-in Apache Spark integration, eliminating the need to build a separate module, plugin, or library);</li> 
      <li>Easy to use --with built-in visualizations and dynamic forms;</li> 
      <li>Flexible --allows users to mix different languages, exchange data between backends, adjust the layout;</li> 
      <li>Extensible --with pluggable architecture for interpreters, notebook storages, authentication, and visualizations (in progress); and</li> 
      <li>Advanced --allows interaction between custom visualizations and cluster resources</li> 
    </ul> 
  </div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;With Apache Zeppelin, a wide range of users can make beautiful data-driven, interactive, and collaborative documents with SQL, Scala, and more,&quot; added Soo.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Zeppelin is in use at an array of organizations and solutions, including Amazon Web Services, Hortonworks, JuJu, and Twitter, among others.&nbsp;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Congratulations to Apache Zeppelin community on graduation,&quot; said Tim Hall, Vice President of Product Management at Hortonworks. &quot;Several members of our team have been working over the past year in the Zeppelin community&nbsp;</div> 
  <div>to make it enterprise ready. We are excited to be associated with this community and look forward to helping our customers get the best insights out of their data with Apache Zeppelin.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Apache Zeppelin is becoming an important tool at Twitter for creating and sharing interactive data analytics and visualizations,&quot; said Prasad Wagle, Technical Lead in the Data Platform team at Twitter. &quot;Since it integrates seamlessly with all the popular data analytics engines, it is very easy to create and share reports and dashboards. With its extensible architecture and a vibrant Open Source community, I am looking forward to Apache Zeppelin advancing the state of the art in data analytics and visualization.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Apache Zeppelin is the major user-facing piece of Memcore’s in-memory data processing Cloud offering. Building a technology stack might be quite exciting engineering challenge, however, if users can’t visualize and work with the data conveniently, it is as good as not having the data at all. Apache Zeppelin enables efficient user acquisition by anyone trying to build new products or service offerings in the Big- and Fast- Data markets, making innovations, collaboration, and development easier for anyone,&quot; said Dr. Konstantin Boudnik, Founder and CEO of Memcore.io. &quot;I am very excited to see Apache Zeppelin graduating as an ASF Top Level Project. This shows that more people are joining the community, bringing the project to a new level, and adding more integration points with existing data analytics and transactional software systems. This directly benefits the community at-large.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Zeppelin originated in 2013 at NFLabs as Peloton, a commercial data analytics product. Since entering the Apache Incubator in December 2014, the project has had three releases, and twice participated in Google Summer of Code under the Apache umbrella.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;It was an honor to help with the incubation of Zeppelin,&quot; said Ted Dunning, Vice President of the Apache Incubator. &quot;I have been very impressed with the Zeppelin community and the software they have built. I see Apache Zeppelin being adopted all over the place where people need to apply a notebook style to a wide variety of kinds of computing.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Catch Apache Zeppelin in action during Berlin Buzzwords, 7 June 2016 <a href="https://s.apache.org/mV8E">https://s.apache.org/mV8E</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><b>Availability and Oversight</b></div> 
  <div>Apache Zeppelin software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Zeppelin, visit <a href="http://zeppelin.apache.org/">http://zeppelin.apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/ApacheZeppelin">https://twitter.com/ApacheZeppelin</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><b>About the Apache Incubator</b></div> 
  <div>The Apache Incubator is the entry path for projects and codebases wishing to become part of the efforts at The Apache Software Foundation. All code donations from external organizations and existing external projects wishing to join the ASF enter through the Incubator to: 1) ensure all donations are in accordance with the ASF legal standards; and 2) develop new communities that adhere to our guiding principles. Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects. While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be fully endorsed by the ASF. For more information, visit <a href="http://incubator.apache.org/">http://incubator.apache.org/</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><b>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</b></div> 
  <div>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 550 individual Members and 5,300 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Alibaba Cloud Computing, ARM, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Confluent, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, HP, Huawei, IBM, InMotion Hosting, iSigma, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, OPDi, PhoenixNAP, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Produban, Red Hat, Serenata Flowers, WANdisco, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Zeppelin&quot;, &quot;Apache Zeppelin&quot;, &quot;Ambari&quot;, &quot;Apache Ambari&quot;, &quot;Flink&quot;, &quot;Apache Flink&quot;, &quot;Hadoop&quot;, &quot;Apache Hadoop&quot;, &quot;Hive&quot;, &quot;Apache Hive&quot;, &quot;Spark&quot;, &quot;Apache Spark&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div># # #</div>
