---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Juneau™ as a Top-Level Project
date: '2017-10-31T10:00:40+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div> 
    <p><strong><em>Open Source framework for quickly and easily creating Java-based REST microservices and APIs in use at IBM, The Open Group, and Salesforce, among others.</em></strong></p> 
    <p><strong><em></em></strong><strong>Forest Hill, MD –31 October 2017–</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today that Apache® Juneau™ has graduated from the Apache Incubator to become a Top-Level Project (TLP), signifying that the project's community and products have been well-governed under the ASF's meritocratic process and principles.</p> 
    <p>Apache Juneau is a cohesive framework that allows developers to marshal POJOs (Plain Old Java Objects) and develop REST (Representational State Transfer) microservices and APIs. Marshalling is used to transform an object’s memory representation to a data format suitable for moving between different parts of a computer program (or across programs), and to simplify communications to remote objects with an object.</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> </div> 
  <div>&quot;We've worked hard on making the Apache Juneau code as simple and easy to use as possible,&quot; said James Bognar, Vice President of Apache Juneau. &quot;We packed Juneau with rich features and functionality, and have successfully directed our efforts on building a diverse community that will help drive the project’s future. We’re very proud to graduate as an Apache Top-Level Project.&quot;</div> 
  <div> 
    <p>Apache Juneau consists of:</p> 
    <p> </p> 
    <ol> 
      <li>A universal toolkit for marshalling POJOs to a wide variety of content types using a common cohesive framework;</li> 
      <li>A universal REST server API for creating self-documenting REST interfaces using POJOs, simply deployed as one or more top-level servlets in any Servlet 3.1.0+ container;</li> 
      <li>A universal REST client API for interacting with Juneau or 3rd-party REST interfaces using POJOs and proxy interfaces; and</li> 
      <li>A REST microservice API that combines all the features above with a simple configurable Jetty server for creating lightweight standalone REST interfaces that start up in milliseconds.</li> 
    </ol> 
    <p><br />Apache Juneau is in use at IBM, The Open Group, and Salesforce, among others. The Apache Streams project began incorporating Apache Juneau libraries in late 2016.</p> 
  </div> 
  <div>&quot;Removing Dropwizard and Jackson in favor of Apache Juneau simplified our dependency tree, increased the performance of our APIs, and added several features, especially HTML rendering, that have been a huge hit,&quot; said Steve Blackmon, Vice President of Apache Streams. &quot;An on-going collaboration between our projects continues to expand the capabilities of Juneau's Remoteable library. As Apache Streams adds additional data provider Java SDKs powered by Juneau, the variety of HTTP interfaces that can be modeled and integrated with Juneau has expanded.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;We were able to replace existing home-grown REST interfaces on top of EMF objects with ones based on Apache Juneau and dramatically reduced the size of our codebase,&quot; said Craig Chaney, former Jazz Repository team lead at IBM. &quot;We also used it as the basis for our Docker-based microservices in our CLM-as-a-Service offering.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;I have used Apache Juneau on projects where I need to work with Web Services,&quot; said David Goddard, Executive IT Specialist at IBM. &quot;Juneau has saved us many development hours, enabling me to easily consume third-party REST APIs and construct my own Web Services far more quickly than I would otherwise be able to. Juneau also aids the development of robust, maintainable applications with clear logical code structure.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;When The Apache Software Foundation moved the JSON.org license to Category X, successors for JSON processing were needed,&quot; said John D. Ament, Vice President of the Apache Incubator, and Apache Juneau incubation mentor. &quot;Apache Juneau was identified as a clean solution. It provides an easy to use API, great performance and a large number of features that made it a strong recommendation for others to leverage.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;As Apache Juneau grows, we welcome new contributors to join the project and take an active role in its development,&quot; added Bognar. &quot;Whether reviewing user code, helping with feedback, or contributing code changes through the mailing list, we look forward to learning more about usage patterns to further improve the product.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Meet members of the Apache Juneau community at the Salesforce Dreamforce 2017 conference 6-9 November 2017 in San Francisco.</div> 
  <div> 
    <p><strong>Availability and Oversight<br /></strong>Apache Juneau software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Juneau, visit <a href="http://juneau.apache.org/">http://juneau.apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/ApacheJuneau">https://twitter.com/ApacheJuneau</a></p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p><strong>About the Apache Incubator<br /></strong>The Apache Incubator is the entry path for projects and codebases wishing to become part of the efforts at The Apache Software Foundation. All code donations from external organizations and existing external projects wishing to join the ASF enter through the Incubator to: 1) ensure all donations are in accordance with the ASF legal standards; and 2) develop new communities that adhere to our guiding principles. Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects. While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be fully endorsed by the ASF. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://incubator.apache.org/</a></p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br /></strong>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 680 individual Members and 6,300 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Alibaba Cloud Computing, ARM, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cash Store, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Hewlett Packard, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Inspur, iSIGMA, ODPi, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, PhoenixNAP, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Serenata Flowers, Target, WANdisco, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Juneau&quot;, &quot;Apache Juneau&quot;, &quot;Streams&quot;, &quot;Apache Streams&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p> 
    <p># # #</p> 
  </div>
