---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Welcomes Phil Steitz as Chairman
date: '2017-08-17T13:50:24+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div> 
    <p>At yesterday's Board meeting, Phil Steitz was named Chairman of the ASF. Steitz, a 12-year ASF Member and former Vice Chairman, succeeds Brett Porter, who has served as ASF Chairman since June 2013. Porter will continue in his role as a member of the ASF Board of Directors.</p> 
    <p>&quot;I am super excited to have Phil take on the role of ASF Chairman, for his depth of experience in the Apache community, significant experience in the industry, and clear understanding of Open Source and open development,&quot; said Brett Porter. &quot;I thank the ASF Membership for giving me the opportunity to serve as chair over the last few years --it's been great!&quot;</p> 
  </div> 
  <div>In addition, ASF co-founder Jim Jagielski has been appointed Vice Chairman. Jagielski has held every officer position since the ASF incorporated in 1999.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>ASF Members elect the Board of Directors to run the Foundation and to set and ensure policy. The Board of Directors are: Rich Bowen, Shane Curcuru, Bertrand Delacretaz, Ted Dunning, Jim Jagielski, Chris Mattmann, Brett Porter, Phil Steitz, and Mark Thomas.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>In addition to Steitz and Jagielski, the ASF's corporate officers include:</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&nbsp;- President Sam Ruby</div> 
  <div>&nbsp;- Executive Vice President Ross Gardler</div> 
  <div>&nbsp;- Treasurer Ulrich Stärk</div> 
  <div>&nbsp;- Secretary Craig Russell</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The complete officer roster is available at <a href="http://apache.org/foundation/">http://apache.org/foundation/</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div># # #</div>
