---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation announces Apache® Polygene™ v3.0
date: '2017-08-01T10:00:25+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><strong><em>Open Source Composite Oriented Programming platform and tools offer simple, easy-to-use enterprise-grade alternative to Java Persistence API</em></strong></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>Forest Hill, MD –1 August 2017–</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today the immediate availability of Apache<sup>®</sup> Polygene™ Java Edition v.3.0, the Composite Oriented Programming platform leveraging Java.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Polygene is a Java application framework used for persistence-centric applications. Polygene delivers a comprehensive solution for creating business applications, with dependency injection, aspect oriented programming, persistence system, metrics and serialization, in a modular fashion with dozens of extensions.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Apache Polygene's slogan --'New Energy for Java - Classes are Dead, Long Live Interfaces' -- truly captures what Apache Polygene is really about: designing software efficiently,&quot; said Niclas Hedhman, original project co-founder and member of the Apache Polygene Project Management Committee. &quot;Too many frameworks add a lot of boilerplate and configuration that is simply not needed. It just slows everyone down, and everyone is looking for alternatives to JPA (Java Persistence API). Polygene can deliver that, and much more. Simply put, Polygene is application framework done right.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Polygene 3.0 is a major release on Java 8, and features new serialization subsystem, persistence system additions of Apache Cassandra and Apache Geode entity stores, full Java Scripting API support, and a focus for delivery of REST API applications and microservices. Polygene 3.0's many improvements make it easier to get started and is anticipated to be a critical release for years to come. Further details are available in the Apache Polygene 3.0 technical fact sheet <a href="https://blogs.apache.org/polygene/date/20170730">https://blogs.apache.org/polygene/date/20170730</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Version 3.0 has been more work than any previous release,&quot; said Paul Merlin, Vice President of and Release Manager of Apache Polygene. &quot;We have rewritten large sections of the Polygene Runtime to leverage Java 8 platform, and decided to minimize user impact by making all other changes that may break compatibility with previous versions at the same time.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;In our new business venture, I am again happy to use Polygene to simplify the application modeling,&quot; said Jiri Jetmar, member of the Apache Polygene Project Management Committee and longtime Polygene user. &quot;Many features are crucial, but being able to not use JPA and have a better persistence model is probably the most important one for us. There are very few alternatives to JPA, and Polygene is simply the best.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Polygene originated in 2007 as Qi4j, and, in 2015, became the first project to enter the ASF as a pTLP (provisional Top-Level Project) without entering the Apache Incubator. The project celebrated its 10 year anniversary with its 9th supported release, and is planning for 3 additional releases in the next 12 months.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;We are already working on Polygene 3.1 with a code generator to get started more quickly,&quot; added Hedhman. &quot;Also in the works is an enterprise-friendly SQL entity store, to remove the last objections of using Polygene in enterprise projects.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Moving forward, we are determined to preserve compatibility,&quot; added Merlin. &quot;We invite interested individuals to download Polygene and join the discussion on future features and enhancements.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>Availability and Oversight</strong></div> 
  <div>Apache Polygene software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Polygene, visit <a href="https://polygene.apache.org/">https://polygene.apache.org/</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</strong></div> 
  <div>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 620 individual Members and 6,000 Committers successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Alibaba Cloud Computing, ARM, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cash Store, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Confluent, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, HP, Huawei, IBM, InMotion Hosting, iSigma, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, ODPi, PhoenixNAP, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Produban, Red Hat, Serenata Flowers, Target, WANdisco, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="https://www.apache.org/">https://www.apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Polygene&quot;, &quot;Apache Polygene&quot;, &quot;Cassandra&quot;, &quot;Apache Cassandra&quot;, &quot;Geode&quot;, &quot;Apache Geode&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div># # #</div>
