---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® HTTP Server v2.4.37
date: '2018-10-23T14:02:09+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><strong><em>Milestone release of world’s most popular Web server now faster, more secure, and more efficient with TLS and OpenSSL support</em></strong></div> 
  <div><strong><br /></strong></div> 
  <div><strong>Wakefield, MA —23 October 2018—</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache® HTTP Server 2.4.37, the latest version of the world's most popular Web server.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache HTTP Server is an Open Source HTTP server for modern operating systems that include UNIX, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and Netware. For more than 23 years, the award-winning server software has been lauded as a secure, efficient, and extensible server that provides HTTP services observing the current HTTP standards.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;The Apache HTTP Server 2.4.37 represents a continuing marvel of a journey through Open Source history,&quot; said Daniel Gruno, Vice President of Apache HTTP Server. &quot;More than four thousand people have contributed directly to the project during its lifetime, and one dare say many more will contribute, as we continue a steady pace at the very forefront of Web server software engineering.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache HTTP Server v2.4.37 features Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.3 support when linked with a supporting OpenSSL (software library/toolkit for the TLS and Secure Sockets Layer protocols). Highlights include:</div> 
  <div> 
    <ul> 
      <li>Improved Speed —shorter handshake time for quicker connections;</li> 
      <li>Enhanced Security —removed/deprecated less secure features for protection now and into the future; and</li> 
      <li>Upgraded Efficiency —integrated state-of-the-art protocols such as TLS 1.3 with HTTP/2 for reduced overhead and added performance.</li> 
    </ul> 
  </div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The full list of new features and changes is available in the project release notes at <a href="https://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/CHANGES_2.4">https://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/CHANGES_2.4</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Keeping pace with the major browsers and servers, this release is another step in our collective journey to a more secure Internet,&quot; said Daniel Ruggeri, Apache HTTP Server committer and v2.4.37 Release Manager. &quot;We are in an exciting time in the Web technology space, and are proud to keep a great server on top of its game. We look forward to feedback and shipping more releases with killer features!&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The Apache HTTP Server has long been the server of choice for Websites of all sizes, and played an integral role in the growth of the commercial development of the World Wide Web. It remains the most popular Web server on the planet since April 1996.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;If I had to pinpoint the number one feature of the Apache HTTP Server Project and its long successful run, it is the community and self-driving mechanisms,&quot; added Gruno. &quot;For nearly two decades, our community-first focus has given people the ability to come to us with a problem they need to solve, or piece of new technology that makes sense to them, and work with the community towards that goal —independent from who they are or who they work for or represent— and have it implemented and released with the The Apache Software Foundation guarding their backs. We encourage those in the HTTP sphere with an itch to scratch to step forward and leverage this advantage as we continue to serve the users of the Apache HTTP Server.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>Availability and Oversight</strong></div> 
  <div>Apache HTTP Server software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache HTTP Server, visit <a href="https://httpd.apache.org/">https://httpd.apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/apache_httpd">https://twitter.com/apache_httpd</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</strong></div> 
  <div>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 730 individual Members and 6,800 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Aetna, Anonymous, ARM, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Handshake, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Indeed, Inspur, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, Oath, ODPi, Pineapple Fund, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Target, and Union Investment. For more information, visit <a href="https://apache.org/%20">https://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Apache HTTP Server&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div># # #</div>
