---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Oozie(TM) v5.0.0
date: '2018-04-18T14:06:17+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><strong><em>Open Source workflow scheduler for Apache Hadoop used to build complex Big Data transformations.</em></strong></div> 
  <div><strong><br /></strong></div> 
  <div><strong>Wakefield, MA —18 April 2018—</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache® Oozie<sup>TM</sup> v5.0.0, the workflow scheduler for Apache Hadoop.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Oozie is a scalable, reliable, and extensible Java Web application used for job workflow scheduling and operational services management within an Apache Hadoop cluster. Integrated with the Hadoop stack, Oozie supports jobs for Apache projects such as Spark, Hive, MapReduce, Pig, and Sqoop, and can also schedule system-specific jobs, such as Java programs and shell scripts. The project entered the Apache Incubator in 2011, and graduated as an Apache Top-Level Project in 2012.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Apache Oozie 5's flagship feature, Oozie on YARN, started off as a 1 day hackathon project almost 4 years ago, and it's great to see that the Oozie community has taken it on and made it ready for everyone to use,&quot; said Robert Kanter, Vice President of Apache Oozie. &quot;It's a big change to Oozie's architecture, and I think our users are going to be very happy with the benefits it brings.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Oozie allows cluster administrators to build complex Big Data transformations out of multiple component tasks. This provides greater control over jobs and also makes it easier to repeat those jobs at predetermined intervals.&nbsp;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Oozie combines multiple jobs sequentially into one logical unit of work through 1) Oozie Workflow jobs -- Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) of actions; and 2) Oozie Coordinator jobs -- recurrent Oozie Workflow jobs triggered by time (frequency) and data availability. Apache Oozie 5.0.0 includes new features, bug fixes and minor improvements that include:</div> 
  <div> 
    <ul> 
      <li>moved launcher from MapReduce mapper to YARN ApplicationMaster;</li> 
      <li>switched from Tomcat 6 to embedded Jetty 9;</li> 
      <li>updated third party libraries;</li> 
      <li>completely rewritten workflow graph generator;</li> 
      <li>JDK 8 support;</li> 
      <li>deprecated Instrumentation in favor of Metrics;</li> 
      <li>added indexes to speed up DB queries; and&nbsp;</li> 
      <li>fixed CVE-2017-15712</li> 
    </ul> 
  </div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The full list of new features can be found in the project release notes at <a href="http://oozie.apache.org/">https://oozie.apache.org/docs/5.0.0/release-log.txt</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Oozie 5 is a major milestone for the project,&quot; said Andras Piros, Apache Oozie committer and Apache Oozie v5.0 Release Manager. &quot;We are proud to provide all the new functionality to big data administrators, data engineers, and data scientists who can leverage a faster, more streamlined, and more secure workflow orchestrator. Features like Oozie on YARN, Jetty 9 support, and ecosystem revamp enable Apache Hadoop users to create and schedule Hadoop jobs in an efficient and modern way not seen before.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Oozie has long been a staple of a productive Apache Hadoop deployment, playing an important role in orchestrating the rest of the ecosystem. Oozie 5 represents the next step in where Oozie is headed,&quot; added Kanter. &quot;The Apache Oozie community has already got some great features in the works for our next release. We welcome anyone who wants to contribute to join us in making Oozie the best it can be.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>Availability and Oversight</strong></div> 
  <div>Apache Oozie software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Oozie, visit <a href="http://oozie.apache.org/">http://oozie.apache.org/</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</strong></div> 
  <div>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 680 individual Members and 6,500 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Aetna, Alibaba Cloud Computing, ARM, Baidu, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cash Store, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Indeed, Inspur, iSIGMA, ODPi, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, PhoenixNAP, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Target, Union Investment, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Oozie&quot;, &quot;Apache Oozie&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div># # #</div>
