---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® CloudStack® v4.11
date: '2018-02-12T11:00:18+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><strong><em>Mature Open Source Enterprise Cloud platform powers billions of dollars in transactions for the world's largest Cloud providers.</em></strong></div> 
  <div> 
    <p><strong>Wakefield, MA —12 February 2018—</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache<sup>®</sup> CloudStack<sup>®</sup> v4.11, the latest version of the turnkey enterprise Cloud orchestration platform.</p> 
    <p> </p> 
    <p>Apache CloudStack is the proven, highly scalable, and easy-to-deploy IaaS platform used for rapidly creating private, public, and hybrid Cloud environments. Thousands of large-scale public Cloud providers and enterprise organizations use Apache CloudStack to enable billions of dollars worth of business transactions annually across their clouds.</p> 
    <p>&quot;This is another great release,&quot; said Wido den Hollander, Vice President of Apache CloudStack. &quot;The community has worked very hard to develop great new features and many enhancements to CloudStack. Together we are making the project better every single day.&quot;</p> 
    <p>Apache CloudStack v4.11 features more than 250 new capabilities, such as improved integration, stability, storage, networking support, and performance. Highlights include:</p> 
    <p> </p> 
    <ul> 
      <li>new Host HA framework with an HA provider for KVM powered clouds;</li> 
      <li>new certificate authority framework to support ongoing&nbsp; work in container &amp; application clusters;</li> 
      <li>integration with Prometheus;</li> 
      <li>a connector for Cloudian Hyperstore S3 storage;</li> 
      <li>deeper integration with Nuage SDN; and</li> 
      <li>Layer 2 Networking capabilities.</li> 
    </ul> 
    <p> </p> 
    <p><br />The full list of new features can be found in the project release notes at <a href="http://docs.cloudstack.apache.org/projects/cloudstack-release-notes/en/4.11.0.0/">http://docs.cloudstack.apache.org/projects/cloudstack-release-notes/en/4.11.0.0/</a></p> 
    <p>&quot;This release has been driven by the people operating CloudStack clouds,” said Rohit Yadav, Apache CloudStack v4.11 Release Manager. &quot;I would like to thank the contributors across all of these organizations for supporting this release, which reflects both the user-driven nature of our community and the Apache CloudStack project's commitment to continue to be the most stable, easily deployable, scalable Open Source platform for IaaS. Along with great new features, v4.11 brings several important structural changes such as better support for systemd and Java 8, migration to embedded Jetty, and a new and optimized Debian 9 based systemvm template.&quot;</p> 
    <p>Apache CloudStack powers numerous elastic Cloud computing services, including solutions that have ranked as Gartner Magic Quadrant leaders. Highlighted in the Forrester Q4 2017 Enterprise Open Source Cloud Adoption report, Apache CloudStack &quot;sits beneath hundreds of service provider clouds&quot;, including Fortune 5 multinational corporations. A list of known Apache CloudStack users are available at <a href="http://cloudstack.apache.org/users.html">http://cloudstack.apache.org/users.html</a></p> 
    <p>&quot;Apache CloudStack release 4.11 has impressive new content,&quot; said Kris Sterckx, CloudStack development lead at Nuage Networks. &quot;More than any previous release, v4.11 leverages the value of Nuage Networks SDN with Nuage 5.0 support, SDN managed networks, per-interface DHCP options support and automation support for migrating deployed Apache CloudStack clouds from traditional Linux bridge networking to SDN/OVS based networking.&quot;</p> 
    <p>&quot;At Interoute, we depend on Apache Cloudstack to help us deliver innovative and reliable IaaS services to our global customers,&quot; said Alex Mattioli, Chief Cloud Architect at Interoute. &quot;The functionality in the 4.11 release shows that Cloudstack continues to be the most operator-focused IaaS platform available for large service providers, with a development community who are able to quickly develop what the market wants. Many of the features in this release have been created directly based on the needs of Interoute and our customers.&quot;</p> 
    <p>&quot;Apache CloudStack 4.11 continues to bring innovative features and functionality to market through collaborative Open Source development,&quot; said Simon Weller, Director of Technology at Education Networks America. &quot;We're particularly excited by the Host-HA framework, which brings a much greater level of hypervisor automation to KVM based service providers.&quot;</p> 
    <p>&quot;Feedback from our community helps us solve real-world problems and strengthens our development process,&quot; added den Hollander. &quot;I look forward to Apache CloudStack users and developers continuing to work closely together to make future releases even better!&quot;</p> 
    <p>Catch Apache CloudStack in action 28 February 2018 at the German CloudStack Meetup in Frankfurt.</p> 
    <p><strong>Availability and Oversight<br /></strong>Apache CloudStack software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache CloudStack, visit <a href="http://cloudstack.apache.org/">http://cloudstack.apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/CloudStack">https://twitter.com/CloudStack</a></p> 
    <p><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br /></strong>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 680 individual Members and 6,500 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Aetna, Alibaba Cloud Computing, ARM, Baidu, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cash Store, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Inspur, iSIGMA, ODPi, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, PhoenixNAP, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Target, Union Investment, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></p> 
    <p>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;CloudStack&quot;, &quot;Apache CloudStack&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p> 
    <p># # #</p> 
  </div>
