---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Kibble™ as a Top-Level Project
date: '2018-01-30T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div> 
    <p><strong><em>Open Source tools used for collecting, aggregating and visualizing software project activity.</em></strong></p> 
    <p><strong><em></em></strong><strong>Wakefield, MA —30 January 2018—</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache® Kibble™ as a Top-Level Project (TLP).</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>Apache Kibble is an activity reporting platform created to collect, aggregate, analyze, and visualize activity in software projects and communities. With Kibble, users can track a project's code, discussions, issues, and individuals through detailed views mapped across specified time periods.</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>&quot;We are passionate about solving hard problems, particularly as they relate to defining and measuring a project's success,&quot; said Rich Bowen, Vice President of Apache Kibble. &quot;As doing so is notoriously difficult, we want to provide a set of tools that allow a project to define success, and track their progress towards that success, in terms that make the most sense for their community. Apache Kibble is a way to make this happen.&quot;</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>Apache Kibble is the latest project to enter the ASF directly as a Top-Level Project, bypassing the Apache Incubator (the official entry path for projects and codebases wishing to become part of the efforts at The Apache Software Foundation). As part of its eligibility, Apache Kibble had to meet the many requirements of the Apache Maturity Model <a href="http://s.apache.org/O4p">http://s.apache.org/O4p</a> that include a project’s code, copyright, licenses, releases, consensus building, independence, and more.</p> 
    <p>Kibble is the Open Source edition of Snoot, the enterprise project and community reporting platform used by dozens of Apache projects as well as by the ASF for its official reports including the ASF Annual Report.</p> 
    <p>&quot;By gaining an in-depth view into the ASF's operations through 1,433 Apache project repositories, we are able to obtain performance metrics for more than 300 Apache projects and nearly 900 million code line changes by more than 6,500 contributors,&quot; said Sally Khudairi, Vice President of Marketing and Publicity at The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;We are excited to share the ability to provide insight with projects of all kinds, and help their communities identify trends and advance their impact.&quot;</p> 
    <p>&quot;We're getting input and data from both a wide range of Apache projects as well as projects from outside of the foundation,&quot; added Bowen. &quot;We're also collecting historical metrics from older projects with their rich history of successes and mistakes. They have a great deal of history and passion around measuring their communities, and hearing from disparate projects is helping to refine that vision. We would love to hear from more projects about what metrics are important to track, and invite their communities to join our mailing lists to discuss how we can help one another.&quot;</p> 
    <p>Catch Apache Kibble in action at FOSDEM, 3-4 February 2018 in Brussels.</p> 
    <p><strong>Availability and Oversight<br /></strong>Apache Kibble software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Kibble, visit <a href="http://kibble.apache.org/">http://kibble.apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/ApacheKibble">https://twitter.com/ApacheKibble</a></p> 
    <p><a href="https://twitter.com/ApacheKibble"></a><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br /></strong>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 680 individual Members and 6,500 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Aetna, Alibaba Cloud Computing, ARM, Baidu, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cash Store, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Inspur, iSIGMA, ODPi, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, PhoenixNAP, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Target, Union Investment, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></p> 
    <p><a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF"></a>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Kibble&quot;, &quot;Apache Kibble&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p> 
    <p># # #</p> 
  </div>
