---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Subversion® v1.10.0
date: '2018-04-16T10:00:10+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><strong><em>Open Source version control system ranked among leaders in $970MM+ market</em></strong></div> 
  <div><strong><br /></strong></div> 
  <div><strong>Wakefield, MA —16 April 2018—</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache® Subversion® v1.10.0, the popular centralized software version control system.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>With Apache Subversion, files and directories can be edited, copied, deleted, merged, and tagged, with each such operation leaving a permanent entry in the version control system's history record. Files can be locked for exclusive access. The system supports a command-line interface and several third-party graphical interfaces, and can also be scripted in Python, Perl, Ruby, or Java. Subversion is very portable and runs on virtually all general-purpose operating systems in use today. The software versioning and revision control system initiated in 2000, entered the Apache Incubator in 2009, and graduated as an Apache Top-Level Project in 2010.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Dealing with merge conflicts is one of the most complicated aspects of version control. While merge conflicts in a text file are usually best resolved by editing the file directly, merge conflicts can also occur when the directory tree structure of a project is changed. Resolving such structural conflicts requires users to manipulate entire collections of files and directories at once, which is time-consuming and error-prone,&quot; said Stefan Sperling, Vice President of Apache Subversion. &quot;With Subversion 1.10, structural conflicts can now be resolved with support from a built-in interactive conflict resolver which automates conflict resolution tasks users had to perform manually in the past. This is a major usability improvement and saves users who do a lot of merging a significant amount of time.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Subversion 1.10 is the result of more than three years’ development effort, and features:</div> 
  <div> 
    <ul> 
      <li>Numerous bug fixes</li> 
      <li>Improved path-based authorization</li> 
      <li>New interactive conflict resolver</li> 
      <li>LZ4 compression support over the wire and backend storage</li> 
      <li>Shelving (experimental)</li> 
    </ul> 
  </div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>The full list of new features can be found in the project release notes at https://subversion.apache.org/docs/release-notes/1.10.html</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>In its new &quot;Version Control Systems Market: Global Industry Analysis&quot; report, Future Market Insights estimates that the version control systems market will exhibit 11.5% CAGR and reach US$971.8MM by 2027. Apache Subversion has been ranked in the &quot;Market Leader&quot; quadrant in G2 Crowd’s &quot;Best Version Control Systems&quot; for 2018. Time tracking and productivity tool producer Time Doctor recommends, &quot;if you want to have a single master source tree that is being worked on by a small core development group, SVN should be the first system you try as it’s reliable and tailored for that.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Millions of users worldwide rely on Apache Subversion (SVN) to safely and easily manage version control across an array of applications.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;As a large Open Source project with many moving parts, and many connections to other projects, the FreeBSD operating system depends on Apache Subversion to be its single source of truth for all version control operations,&quot; said members of the FreeBSD Core team. &quot;Subversion has proved to be a reliable, stable, and overall usable system for the project for many years and we appreciate the high quality of the work done in designing and maintaining SVN.&quot;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Apache Subversion is a reliable and robust centralized version control system that is well suited for enterprises,&quot; said Michael Diers, Technical Director of elego Software Solutions GmbH. &quot;Over the years, we have had very little problems with Subversion deployments that we setup and maintain for our customers. Its development community is very competent, friendly and welcoming.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;One of the usually overlooked advantages of Apache Subversion is that it works natively on all modern platforms, including Windows,&quot; said Ivan Zhakov, Technical Director of VisualSVN Software Ltd. &quot;Subversion is based on Apache Portable Runtime and does not impose dependencies on Cygwin or its replacements. Nowadays, this advantage is of extreme importance for enterprise users who work in heterogeneous environment in the vast majority of cases.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Assembla customers rely on Apache Subversion to build leading edge technologies and products in a secure and scalable environment,&quot; said Jacek Materna, Assembla CTO. &quot;With more than 4,000 Assembla users running SVN, we are excited to have contributed directly to Apache Subversion 1.10.0 and the improved performance and key features it will bring. LZ4 Compression, improved path-based authorization and shelving are just a few of the updates that represent significant innovation for SVN.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Over 18 years of its development, Subversion has grown into a very mature and solid version control package supported by a friendly and healthy Open Source project community with long-term productivity and success,&quot; added Sperling. &quot;Subversion's community and wider ecosystem is an exemplary example of how the collaborative Open Source development model can work to the benefit of its users, its developers, and its sponsors.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>Availability and Oversight</strong></div> 
  <div>Apache Subversion software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Subversion, visit <a href="http://subversion.apache.org/">http://subversion.apache.org/</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</strong></div> 
  <div>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 680 individual Members and 6,500 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Aetna, Alibaba Cloud Computing, ARM, Baidu, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cash Store, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Inspur, iSIGMA, ODPi, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, PhoenixNAP, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Target, Union Investment, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Subversion&quot;, &quot;Apache Subversion&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div># # #</div>
