---
layout: post
title: 'Success at Apache: carrying forward the benefits'
date: '2018-10-01T21:27:01+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><strong><em>by Mikael Ståldal</em></strong></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Back in 2013, I worked as software developer and architect at a small IT company. We needed a logging framework for the Java based server platform we were developing. Initially, we tried to use the java.util.logging framework built in to the Java platform. But we soon realized that it was insufficient for our needs.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Looking for alternatives, I found Apache Log4j 1.2 and Logback 1.0. I was not very impressed with either of them, and a bit frustrated with the fragmentation of logging frameworks for Java.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Then I discovered Apache Log4j 2, which was still in beta, but looked promising and I decided to try it out. It worked well for us, and I decided to get involved to improve and contribute to it. I hoped that it once will become the standard logging framework for the Java platform.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>We used Graylog to aggregate and analyze log events, and I developed a plugin for Log4j 2 to make it easier to integrate with Graylog. This plugin, GelfLayout, was contributed to the project and became part of Log4j 2. Then I got invited to be committer in the Log4j 2 project.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>2015 I got a new job at another IT company. We also needed a Java based logging framework, and I introduced Log4j 2. We found the plugin I had developed at the previous job useful. Later, I developed another plugin for our needs, KafkaAppender, and contributed it to the project. Then I got invited to the Apache Logging PMC (as a committer September 2015, and later member of the Project Management Committee June 2016).</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>So, thanks to open source and the Apache Software Foundation, I was able to develop a software component when working for one employer, and then continue to use it at my next employer.</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>How can you do this yourself? Most likely you already use some open source software at work, and there are probably cases where it can be changed to fit your needs better. Make use of your right to make changes, and consider contribute them upstream if they constitute generic improvements. That will benefit the larger community by improving widespread software. It will also benefit the company you work for since they will get less maintenance burden when never versions are released. And finally it will benefit your future self when you work for another company using the same open source software. Read more about how to contribute to an Apache open source project here: <a href="http://apache.org/foundation/getinvolved.html">http://apache.org/foundation/getinvolved.html</a></div> 
  <div><br /><br /></div> 
  <div><em>Mikael Ståldal works as software developer, developing mostly in Java and Scala. He has worked at various IT companies in Stockholm. Mikael is also committer and PMC member of the Apache Logging Services project.</em></div> 
  <div> 
    <p style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-style: normal;">= = =</span></p> 
    <p>&quot;Success at Apache&quot; is a monthly blog series that focuses on the processes behind why the ASF &quot;just works&quot;&nbsp;<a href="https://blogs.apache.org/foundation/category/SuccessAtApache">https://blogs.apache.org/foundation/category/SuccessAtApache</a></p> 
  </div>
