---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Subversion® v1.11.0
date: '2018-10-31T10:00:54+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<p><strong><em>Popular Open Source version control system used by millions across an array of applications worldwide.</em></strong> </p> 
  <p><strong>
Wakefield, MA —31 October 2018—</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache® Subversion® v1.11.0, the latest version of the popular centralized software version control system.

</p> 
  <p>Apache Subversion is characterized by its reliability as a safe haven for valuable data; the simplicity of its model and usage; and its ability to support the needs of a wide variety of users and projects, from individuals to large-scale enterprise operations.</p> 
  <p>

&quot;Subversion 1.11 is the first release which follows our new six-month release cycle,&quot; said Stefan Sperling, Vice President of Apache Subversion. &quot;Subversion 1.11 provides iterative improvements of features released in Subversion 1.10, and will be supported for six months.&quot;
</p> 
  <p>
Apache Subversion v1.11.0 highlights include:

</p> 
  <p> </p> 
  <ul> 
    <li>More robust shelving of changes in the working copy;</li> 
    <li>Interactive conflict resolution supports more conflict situations involving moved files and directories; and</li> 
    <li>New command to write out a view specification describing the current working copy shape.</li> 
  </ul> 
  <p><br />Based on the new release cycle, Apache Subversion 1.10 is now considered a long-term support (LTS) release, with a planned support period of four years. The next LTS release will be Subversion 1.14, which is anticipated 18 months from now.

</p> 
  <p>&quot;Our new release plan gives users who value stability plenty of time to schedule upgrades between LTS releases, while users who prefer quick access to new features will be able to get updated approximately every 6 months,&quot; added Sperling. &quot;Several new client-side features are marked ‘experimental’ in this 1.11 release. We encourage all our users to test these features and provide feedback.&quot;

</p> 
  <p><strong>Availability and Oversight<br /></strong>Apache Subversion software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Subversion, visit <a href="http://subversion.apache.org/">http://subversion.apache.org/</a> </p> 
  <p><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br /></strong>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 730 individual Members and 6,800 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Aetna, Anonymous, ARM, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Handshake, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Indeed, Inspur, LeaseWeb, Microsoft, Oath, ODPi, Pineapple Fund, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Target, and Union Investment. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a> </p> 
  <p>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Subversion&quot;, &quot;Apache Subversion&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
</p> 
  <p>
# # #</p>
