---
layout: post
title: Protecting Apache Ignite from 'Meltdown' and 'Spectre' vulnerabilities
date: '2018-01-08T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: ignite
---
<p>The world was rocked after the recent disclosure of the <a href="https://www.vox.com/business-and-finance/2018/1/4/16850004/meltdown-spectre-intel-security-flaw-update" target="_blank">Meltdown and Spectre</a> vulnerabilities that literally affect almost all software ever developed. Both issues are related to the way all modern CPUs are designed and this is why they have opened&nbsp;unprecedented security breaches -- making the software, including Apache Ignite, vulnerable to hacker&nbsp;attacks.</p>

<p>The vulnerabilities are registered in the National Vulnerability Database under the following CVEs:</p>

<ul>
	<li><a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-5753" target="_blank">CVE-2017-5753</a> — Spectre variant 1</li>
	<li><a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-5715" target="_blank">CVE-2017-5715</a> — Spectre variant 2</li>
	<li><a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-5754" target="_blank">CVE-2017-5754</a> — Meltdown</li>
</ul>

<h2>How to protect Apache Ignite deployments?</h2>

<p>First, the vulnerabilities can be fixed only on the operating system (OS) or hardware levels. All OS and hardware vendors are working on and releasing patches to fill-in the security breaches. Depending on the type of your Apache Ignite deployment, make sure to do the following:</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>On-premise deployments</strong> - apply the patches prepared by your OS and hardware vendors. Consult with them to find out additional steps to act on. <a href="https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/alerts/TA18-004A" target="_blank">This page</a> is a good place to start with.</li>
	<li><strong>Cloud deployments</strong> - major cloud providers such as Amazon and Microsoft are in a process of patching their cloud computing services. Consider a cloud provider's security announcements and recommendations or follow up with a representative for suggestions.</li>
</ul>

<p>Second, an Apache Ignite cluster becomes vulnerable to the attacks only if someone gets unauthorized access to cluster machines (both on-premise or cloud deployments) and executes a malicious shell script or connects to the cluster directly and executes a Java, .NET or C++ computation there.</p>

<p>Do the following to prevent this from happening:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Make sure the cluster machines are secured with a hard-to-guess or hard-to-calculate password.</li>
	<li>Consider using 3rd party security components provided by enterprise vendors (such as <a href="https://docs.gridgain.com/docs/security-and-audit" target="_blank">this one</a>) to strengthen a security shield of your deployments.</li>
</ul>

<p>Finally, researchers who discovered Meltdown and Spectre have said that the first issue can be fixed with software patches while the second can be fully addressed only with hardware upgrades/replacement. Luckily, it's&nbsp;much more difficult for hackers to exploit Spectre. Thus, if the two recommendations given above are taken seriously, the chances that you will be impacted from Spectre are low.</p>

<h2>What is the performance impact of security patches?</h2>

<p>Many security patches are rolled out with a precaution that some of the applications can see up to a 30% performance degradation. Apache Ignite community is planning to measure the impact of general usage scenarios and will follow up with the results in a consequent post.</p>

<p>This general performance testing might not cover your use case. Therefore, it's highly recommended that you assess and test a possible performance drop of your Apache Ignite deployments before applying the patches in production. If the drop is significant, then contact us on the <a href="https://ignite.apache.org/community/resources.html#mail-lists" target="_blank">dev list</a>.
