---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache® Unomi™ as a Top-Level Project
date: '2019-03-21T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<div><strong><em>Powerful Open Source Customer Data Platform in use at Al-Monitor, Altola, Jahia, and Yupiik, among others.&nbsp;</em></strong></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>Wakefield, MA —21 March 2019—</strong> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache® Unomi™ as a Top-Level Project (TLP).</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Apache Unomi is a standards-based, Customer Data Platform (CDP) that manages online customer, leads, and visitor information to provide personalized experiences that adheres to visitor privacy rules such as GDPR and “Do Not Track” preferences. The project was originally developed at Jahia, and was submitted to the Apache Incubator in October 2015.</div> 
  <div> 
    <p>&quot;I am truly thankful to our community, especially our mentors, who have helped us achieve this milestone,&quot; said Serge Huber, Vice President of Apache Unomi. &quot;The original vision behind Unomi was to ensure true privacy by making the technologies handling customer data completely Open Source and independent. Since it was submitted to the Apache Incubator, developing Unomi using the Apache Way will ensure the project grows its community to be more diverse and welcome new users and developers.&quot;</p> 
    <p>Apache Unomi is versatile, and features privacy management, user/event/goal tracking, reporting, visitor profile management, segmentation, personas, A/B testing, and more. It can be used as:</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> 
    <ul> 
      <li>a personalization service for a Web CMS;<br /><br /></li> 
      <li>an analytics service for&nbsp; native mobile applications;<br /><br /> </li> 
      <li>a centralized profile management system with segmentation capabilities; and<br /><br /> </li> 
      <li>a consent management hub<br /><br /></li> 
    </ul> 
  </div> 
  <div> </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>Apache Unomi is the industry's first reference implementation of the upcoming OASIS CDP specification (established by the OASIS CXS Technical Committee, which sets standards as a core technology for enabling the delivery of personalized user experiences). As a reference implementation, Apache Unomi serves as a real world example of how the standard will be stable, and is quickly gaining traction by those interested in truly open and transparent customer data privacy. Apache Unomi is in use at organizations such as Al-Monitor, Altola, Jahia, Yupiik, and many others to create and deliver consistent personalized experiences across channels, markets, and systems.</p> 
    <p>&quot;When Serge and I announced the launch of the Apache Unomi project at the 2015 ApacheCon Budapest, Apache Unomi, at that time, was the first proposal among the rising Customer Data Platform industry's segment, positioned as an 'ethical data-driven marketing' product that would respect the privacy of customers while leveraging the power of unified customers data,&quot; said Elie Auvray, Head of Business Development at Jahia. &quot;Jahia's digital experience management solutions are based on Apache Unomi, and we can't wait to see how the project will now evolve with its growing community. Seeing today Apache Unomi becoming a Top-Level Project is a great reward for us as Open Source software believers. We are proud of this milestone, grateful to the Apache Software Foundation and our mentors, and we know it's only the beginning of a new –hopefully long and successful– journey.&quot;</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> </div> 
  <div>&quot;Under development at OASIS, the Customer Data Platform specification –for which Apache Unomi aims to be the reference implementation– lies at the crossroads of many solutions providers needs such as WCM, CRM, Big Data Platforms, Machine Learning, IoT and Digital Marketing,&quot; said Laurent Liscia, CEO of OASIS. &quot;At a time when client data interoperability and built-in data privacy are mandatory foundations for legal, consistent, and personalized experiences across channel markets and systems, the CDP specification, together with Apache Unomi, is a clear and welcome answer to end-user concerns.&quot;</div> 
  <div> </div> 
  <p>&quot;Apache Unomi is the perfect solution to implement a user profile platform,&quot; said Jean-Baptiste Onofré, Fellow at Talend. &quot;It fully addresses the user trust and privacy needs, allowing to easily create user profile and Web marketing features. As Unomi is powered by Apache Karaf, it's also a great platform for several use cases, such as digital marketing in Web applications, managing user profiles on IoT devices, and more.&quot;</p> 
  <div> </div> 
  <div> 
    <p>&quot;Apache Unomi enables Al-Monitor readers to be driven towards additional personalized content that corresponds, via content tags profiling and related automated segmentations, to what they have already accessed,&quot; said Valerie Voci, Head of Digital Strategy and Marketing at Al-Monitor. &quot;This data follows our customers where they go, so it's a consistent experience whether they are getting these recommendations in their inbox or on the Website or both. And if a change takes place on one, that change is immediately reflected on the other. It helps us create a very cohesive marketing message and a great overall digital experience.&quot;</p> 
    <p>&quot;As we were developing a progressive web app (PWA) for a client, we were looking for a Customer Data Platform (CDP) to store customer insights, such as behavioral and explicit customer data,&quot; said Lars Petersen, Co-Founder at Altola. &quot;Privacy was table stake for us, along with the flexibility to customize data schema and open API. We selected Apache Unomi based on these parameters, we had it up and running on AWS in less than 30 min. and are very impressed with the maturity of the platform, its privacy by design and how easy it was to work with.&quot;</p> 
  </div> 
  <div> </div> 
  <div>&quot;In a digital world, customer data is very important to offer a better experience to users. However, data privacy and trust is not an option for users,&quot; said François Papon, CTO at Yupiik. &quot;Apache Unomi is the best solution for our clients because it's an Open Source project managed by an independent foundation, there is no vendor lock-in. It's also based on other solutions like Apache Karaf that made it ready for modularity, scalability, cloud, devops, and more.&quot;&nbsp;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Apache Unomi is poised to disrupt the Customer Data Platform market,&quot; said Thomas Sigdestad, CTO at Enonic, and co-chair, with Serge Huber, of the CDP standards work at OASIS open. &quot;The CDP marketplace is lacking from a standard way of exchanging data, and the vendor space is over-represented by closed source and proprietary cloud offerings. This effectively limits the potential and adoption of CDP in general. Apache Unomi is not merely Open Source, but also the reference implementation of the imminent CDP standard from OASIS. Companies using Unomi will benefit from faster and simpler integrations without locking their customer data into yet another proprietary silo.&quot;&nbsp;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>&quot;Graduating as an Apache Top-Level Project is only the beginning,&quot; added Huber. &quot;Unomi has a lot of potential that it still to be developed, and is a perfect opportunity for those interested in Customer Data Privacy to participate through our mailing lists and Slack channel, and to learn more about the project on our Website and presentations.&quot;</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>Catch Apache Unomi in action at ApacheCon North America (9-12 September 2019 in Las Vegas, Nevada), and ApacheCon Europe (22-24 October 2019 in Berlin, Germany) <a href="http://apachecon.com/">http://apachecon.com/</a> .</div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>Availability and Oversight</strong></div> 
  <div>Apache Unomi software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Unomi, visit <a href="http://unomi.apache.org/">http://unomi.apache.org/</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>About the Apache Incubator</strong></div> 
  <div>The Apache Incubator is the entry path for projects and codebases wishing to become part of the efforts at The Apache Software Foundation. All code donations from external organizations and existing external projects seeking to join the ASF enter through the Incubator to: 1) ensure all donations are in accordance with the ASF legal standards; and 2) develop new communities that adhere to our guiding principles. Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects. While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be fully endorsed by the ASF. For more information, visit <a href="http://incubator.apache.org/">http://incubator.apache.org/</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div><strong>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)</strong></div> 
  <div>Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees more than 350 leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server --the world's most popular Web server software. Through the ASF's meritocratic process known as &quot;The Apache Way,&quot; more than 730 individual Members and 7,000 Committers across six continents successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software, benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation's official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) charitable organization, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors including Aetna, Alibaba Cloud Computing, Anonymous, ARM, Baidu, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cerner, Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Handshake, Hortonworks, Huawei, IBM, Indeed, Inspur, Leaseweb, Microsoft, ODPi, Pineapple Fund, Pivotal, Private Internet Access, Red Hat, Target, Tencent, Union Investment, Workday, and Verizon Media. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a></div> 
  <div><br /></div> 
  <div>© The Apache Software Foundation. &quot;Apache&quot;, &quot;Unomi&quot;, &quot;Apache Unomi&quot;, and &quot;ApacheCon&quot; are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</div>
