---
layout: post
title: Announcing ApacheCon 2021 keynotes
date: '2021-08-17T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: conferences
---
<p>The ApacheCon Planners are delighted to announce our keynotes for <a href="https://www.apachecon.com/acah2021/" target="_blank">ApacheCon @Home 2021</a>.<br></p><p><b>September 21: Ashley Wolf - The Inclusive Community Imperative (and where the next 50 million developers will come from)</b><br></p><p>The amount of software that the human race will rely on in the coming decades is going to grow dramatically, and much of it will be powered by Open Source. In order to support this growth — to maintain the software we already have and create the software of the future — the Open Source community will double in size in the next five years. Ashley Wolf, head of GitHub's open source program office at GitHub, will share insight into the exponential growth and global expansion occurring in Open Source, and the evolution that is necessary to attract the incredible talent and potential of the next 50 million developers.<br></p><p><b>Ashley Wolf</b>&nbsp;is the head of GitHub’s open source program office (OSPO). GitHub’s OSPO focuses on empowering developers and organizations to manage open source at scale.<br></p><p>Passionate about connecting people to technology, Ashley has been active in the open source community for ten years and currently serves on the steering committee for the TODO Group. She is also an advisor for Built By Girls, which empowers the next generation of female and non-binary leaders.<br></p><p>Prior to joining GitHub, Ashley was the head of the open source program office at Yahoo/Verizon Media where she led open source strategy and governance. She created an online open source hackathon and served as representative for the Apache Software Foundation, Linux Foundation, and W3C. Ashley also held roles in product management at Cylance/Blackberry where she launched a global community-driven product portal.&nbsp;<br></p><p><b>September 22: Mark Cox - Community-led Security at ASF</b><br></p><p>Apache projects are running inside nearly every organisation today.&nbsp; But can they trust all our code is secure? During this keynote, Mark will share his thoughts on current security processes at Apache, the balance between central policies and projects' own processes, and what external groups like the Open Source Security Foundation are working on to create a trusted software supply chain.<br></p><p><b>Mark J Cox</b>&nbsp;is VP Security, Apache and a Distinguished Software Engineer in the Red Hat Open Source Program Office.&nbsp; Mark has developed software and worked on the security teams of some of the most popular open source projects, was a founding member of the Apache Software Foundation and the OpenSSL project, and a current board member of the CVE and OpenSSF projects.<br></p><p><b>September 23: Wilson Center/NYU research</b><br></p><p>In the face of widespread shortages of personal protective equipment and medical supplies in the earliest days of COVID, the open source hardware and maker communities came together to design, manufacture, and distribute equipment to fill the gaps.&nbsp; We will explore what worked in this response, what didn't, and how open hardware can be even more effective in future emergencies.<br></p><p><b>Alison Parker</b>, PhD is a Senior Program Associate in the Science and Technology Innovation Program at the Wilson Center.&nbsp;<br></p><p><b>Michael Weinberg</b> is the Executive Director of the Engelberg Center on Innovation Law &amp; Policy at NYU Law and the Board President of the Open Source Hardware Association (OSHWA).</p><p><br></p><div>Find out more about Apachecon, and register today, at <a href="https://www.apachecon.com/acah2021/" target="_blank">apachecon.com</a></div>
