---
layout: post
title: The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache&reg; Doris&trade; as a Top-Level
  Project
date: '2022-06-16T00:00:00+00:00'
categories: foundation
---
<p><b><i>Open Source Big Data MPP analytical database engine in use at Baidu, JD, Meituan, Sina, Tencent, and Xiaomi, among others.</i></b><br></p><p><b>Wilmington, DE —16 June 2022—</b> The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today Apache® Doris™ as a Top-Level Project (TLP).</p><p>Apache Doris is a modern, easy-to-use MPP (massively parallel processing) analytical database system that provides sub-second queries and efficient real-time data analysis. The project was originally developed at Baidu as "Palo", was open-sourced in 2017, and entered the Apache Incubator in July 2018.</p><p>"We are very proud that Doris graduated from the Apache Incubator —it is an important milestone," said Mingyu Chen, Vice President of Apache Doris. "Under the guidance of our incubator mentors, we learned how to successfully develop our project and community the Apache Way. We have achieved great growth during the incubation process."</p><p>Apache Doris is a database system for OLAP (online analytical processing) scenarios. It integrates Apache Impala, Google Mesa, and state-of-art vectorization technologies to provide sub-second queries and efficient real-time data analysis. Apache Doris meets rigorous data analysis demands in many business fields that include multi-dimensional reporting, user portrait, ad-hoc query, and real-time dashboards. Features include:</p><ul><li>High performance: Use column storage, index, parallel execution, vectorization technology, query optimizer and many other technologies to achieve fast query response.</li><li>Easy-to-use: ANSI SQL syntax support. It can be easily scaled horizontally, and the data replica is automatically repaired and balanced. Does not rely on third-party services.</li><li>Pre-aggregation: Provides multiple pre-aggregation data models and ensures data consistency and automatic query routing.</li><li>Big Data ecosystem integration: Supports the connection with Apache Flink, Apache Hive, Apache Hudi, Apache Iceberg, Apache Spark, and ElasticSearch, among other systems.</li></ul><p><br>Developers using Apache Doris enjoy its simplicity in deploying to hundreds of terabytes, and the ability to meet a variety of data-serving requirements in a single system.</p><p>Doris is in use at more than 500 enterprises globally, across a variety of industries such as finance, energy, manufacturing, and telecommunications, among other fields. Many of China’s top 50 Internet companies use Apache Doris, including 360, Baidu, ByteDance, JD, Kwai, Meituan, Netease, Sina, Tencent, and Xiaomi, among others.&nbsp;</p><p>The project recently celebrated the release of Apache Doris 1.0, its eighth release whilst undergoing development in the Apache Incubator (along with six Connector releases), and also welcomed its 300th contributor.&nbsp;</p><p>"Graduation is the starting point of a new journey," added Chen. "Our many plans for the future include continuing to develop Apache Doris, with new contributors and open source technology enthusiasts joining us to help grow our project and community together in the Apache Way."</p><p>Catch Apache Doris in action at ApacheCon Asia 2022, taking place 29-31 July <a href="https://www.apachecon.com/acasia2022/" target="_blank">https://www.apachecon.com/acasia2022/</a> .</p><p><b>Availability and Oversight<br></b>Apache Doris software is released under the Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development and product releases. For downloads, documentation, and ways to become involved with Apache Doris, visit <a href="https://doris.apache.org/" target="_blank">https://doris.apache.org/</a>&nbsp;.</p><p><b>About the Apache Incubator<br></b>The Apache Incubator is the primary entry path for projects and codebases wishing to become part of the efforts at The Apache Software Foundation. All code donations from external organizations and existing external projects enter the ASF through the Incubator to: 1) ensure all donations are in accordance with the ASF legal standards; and 2) develop new communities that adhere to our guiding principles. Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects. While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be fully endorsed by the ASF. For more information, visit <a href="http://incubator.apache.org/" target="_blank">http://incubator.apache.org/</a> .</p><p><b>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br></b>Established in 1999, The Apache Software Foundation is the world's largest Open Source foundation, stewarding 227M+ lines of code and providing more than $22B+ worth of software to the public at 100% no cost. The ASF’s all-volunteer community grew from 21 original founders overseeing the Apache HTTP Server to 820+ individual Members and 200 Project Management Committees who successfully lead 350+ Apache projects and initiatives in collaboration with 8,400+ Committers through the ASF's meritocratic process known as "The Apache Way". Apache software is integral to nearly every end user computing device, from laptops to tablets to mobile devices across enterprises and mission-critical applications. Apache projects power most of the Internet, manage exabytes of data, execute teraflops of operations, and store billions of objects in virtually every industry. The commercially-friendly and permissive Apache License v2 is an Open Source industry standard, helping launch billion dollar corporations and benefiting countless users worldwide. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors that include Aetna, Alibaba Cloud Computing, Amazon Web Services, Anonymous, Baidu, Bloomberg, Capital One, Cloudera, Comcast, Confluent, Didi Chuxing, Facebook, Google, Huawei, IBM, Indeed, LINE Corporation, Microsoft, Namebase, Pineapple Fund, Red Hat, Replicated, Salesforce, Talend, Target, Tencent, Union Investment, VMware, Workday, and Yahoo. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/" target="_blank">http://apache.org/</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF" target="_blank">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a> .<br><br></p><p>© The Apache Software Foundation. "Apache", "Doris", "Apache Doris", "Flink", "Apache Flink", "Hive", "Apache Hive", "Hudi", "Apache Hudi", "Iceberg", "Apache Iceberg", "Apache Impala", "Apache Impala", "Spark", "Apache Spark", and "ApacheCon" are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.</p><p># # #</p>
